Article ID,Newspaper Title,Newspaper City,Newspaper Province,Newspaper Country,Year,Month,Day,Article Type,Text,Keywords
ID290,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,04,18,inform,New Zealand.–On Wednesday a public meeting was held in the Guildhall of the city of London pursuant to a requisition to the Lord Mayor for the purpose of petitioning her Majesty and both Houses of Parliament to adopt prompt and efficient measures for preserving from invasion or abandonment the longestablished sovereignty of the British Crown in the islands of New Zealand at present endangered by foreign pretensions and by the acts of the Executive Government ; also for stopping the course of lawless emigration and settlement which has not only proved deeply injurious to the native people of the country but threatens their speedy extermination ; and lastly for establishing the most beneficial system of colonization and the protection and restraints of British law under a distinct colonial government in place of the state of anarchy which now prevails among both races and all other classes of her Majesty's subjects and others inhabiting or resorting to New Zealand as a distant independency of the territory of New South Wales. Including the gentlemen of the hustings the entire number might be calculated at 400 individuals. The Lord Mayor took the chair. Resolutions in accordance with the object of the meeting were moved and seconded by Mr G. Palmer M.P. Mr F. Baring M.P. Mr Hawes M.P. Mr G. F. Young Mr Ward M.P. and others. On the motion of Mr G. Robinson seconded by Mr Donaldson a petition was adopted by the meeting to be presented to the Queen by the Earl of Devon to the House of Peers by Lord Ashburton and to the Commons by Lord Eliot.,
ID291,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,05,13,inform,New Zealand–Name of the Capital City. ?It will gratify the admirers of the Duke of Wellington to learn that the Directors of the New Zealand Company have resolved that the name of the city founded by Colonel Wakefield Lambton Harbour Port Nicholson and which is destined to become the capital of New Zealand shall be named The City of Wellington in honour of the illustrious Duke. The Duke is a great advocate for colonization and to him the promoters of colonization of South Australia were in a great measure indebted for securing the enactment of the statute which gave effect to the principles on which that colony is founded ; and as many of the promoters of South Australian emigration are Directors of the New Zealand Company they have resolved setting all party politics aside to confer this honour on the Duke. There could be no stronger proof of the political sagacity and statesmanlike views of the Duke than his approval of the Wakefield system of colonization and no better mode of perpetuating his name than by bestowing it on the metropolis of the Great Britain of the Southern Hemisphere.,
ID292,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,07,29,inform,Deputation of Distressed Weavers.–The distress of the Paisley weavers has caused them to send a deputation to London which on Tuesday waited on Lord John Russell to solicit the means of transporting themselves out of the ungrateful country which has been enriched by their toils and in return refuses them the means of subsistence. Their prayer was to be sent to New Zealand. The answer was that Government will next session bring forward some general measure on the subject but in the mean time cannot help them.,
ID293,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,08,12,entertain,LiteratureNarrative of a Whaling Voyage Round The Globe &c. &c By Frederick Debell Bennett Esq. F.R.G.S. 2 vols. London: Richard Bentley.We have been somewhat disappointed in these volumes. We expected to have found them like Scoresby's full of interesting details regarding whale fishing whereas there is hardly a word on the subject throughout the whole of the first volume and very little in the second ; in fact what there is is confined to a sort of supplementary appendix. This is the more strange that one of the chief purposes of the author as he himself informs us in undertaking this voyage was to investigate the anatomy and habits of southern whales and the mode of conducting the sperm whale fishery subjects which he remarks were then untouched by the literature of any country. Yet in the work itself this chief purpose dwindles into one of very secondary prominence. This the readers of the work at least most of them will the more regret on finding how very curious and interesting are the two or three chapters which the author has given on the subejct of South Sea whaling. There are full of entertaining details of both a popular and scientific character and cannot be read without exciting a wish that larger portion of the work had been composed of such material.In making these remarks however we are far from intending to depreciate the sort of information in the shape chiefly of sketches of the South Sea Islands to which the greater part of the volumes are devoted ; we mean merely to say that it is not what we expected from the title of the work nor we may add what for our own reading we should have preferred. Yet are these sketches very amusing reading–full of graphic descriptions and curious details of native character which is still found in the South Sea Islands in a state of very primitive simplicity. We have frequently seen says Mr Bennett amongst the congregagation assembled at Church (in Raiatea) a native clothed in nothing but a shirt ; another with a beaver hat surmounting a person naked except the scanty maro ; and a third whose whole attire was a black coat white neckerchief and a shirt!We observe a rather odd circumstance noted by Mr Bennett. He says that the temperate ships of America are the principal purveyors of ardent spirits to the natives of the South Sea Islands carrying large quantities of rum thither for the purposes of traffic! This is placing the temperance principle in a somewhat curious predicament.Another remark of the author's not less striking–mark it well and take comfort from it ye bon vivants[?] of the civilzed world–is that disease is as abundant amongst the native islanders as amongst the most refined of their species and from this concludes that man in his savage state is as liable to the ills that flesh is heir to as in his civilised condition. Dr Johnson made a similar remark regarding the Highlanders of Scotland ; alleging that the London alderman lived as long over his turtle feast as the Highlander over his paten cake. What degree of fellow-feeling with civic dignitary and his good living or whether any dictated this remark of the learned doctor we cannot say.Mr Bennett's work is written with great ability and in style whose only fault is exhibited in a tendency occasionally to the use of rather learned phraseology.We conclude with an extract from that portion of the work which from its great interest we regretted was not larger but which limited as it is is so full of curious information and so crowded with remarkable incident as to render the selection by no means an easy task.Some sperm whales appear reluctant to employ their tail when attacked but prove active and dangerous with their jaws. Such individuals often rather seek than avoid the attacking boats and rushing upon them with open mouth employ every possible art to crush them with their teeth and if successful will sometimes continue in their neighbourhood biting the wreck and oars into small fragments. When thus threatening a boat the whale usually turns and swings upon its back and will sometimes act in a very sluggish and unaccountable manner keeping its formidable lower jaw suspended for some moments over the boat in a threatening attitude but ultimately rolling to one side and closing its mouth harmlessly ; nor is it rare to observe this whale when pursued and attacked retain[?] its mouth in an expanded state for some minutes together. Such threatening demonstrations of the jaw as well as some others with the flukes occasionally compel a boat's crew to leap into the water and support themselves by swimming or clinging to oars until the danger has passed.In the year 1835 the ship Pusie Hall encountered a fighting whale which after injuring and driving off her four boats pursued them to the ship and withstood for some time the lances hurled at it by the crew from the bows of the vessel before in could be induced to retire ; in this affair a youth in one of the boats was destroyed by a blow from the whale and one of the officers was severely lacerated by coming in contact with the animal's jaw.A highly tragical instances of the power and ferocity occasionally displayed by the sperm whale is recorded in the fate of the American South-Seaman Essex Captain G. Pollard. This vessel when cruising in the Pacific Ocean in the year 1820 was wrecked by a whale under the following extraordinary circumstances. The boats had been lowered in pursuit of a school of whales and the ship was attending them to windward. The master and second mate were engaged with whales they had harpooned in the midst of the school and the chief mate had returned on board to equip a spare boat in lieu of his own which had been broken and rendered unserviceable. While the crew were thus occupied the look-out at the masthead reported that a large whale was coming rapidly down upon the ship the mate hastened his task in the hope that he might be ready in time to attack it.The Cachalot which was of the largest size consequently a male and probably the guardian of the school in the meanwhile approached the ship so closely that the although the helm was put up to avoid the contact he struck her a severe blow which broke off a portion of her keel. The enraged animal was then observed to retire to some distance and again rush upon the ship with extreme velocity. His enormous head struck the starboard bow beating in a corresponding portion of the planks and the people on board had barely time to take to their boats before the ship filled with water and fell over on her side. She did not sink however for some hours ; and the crew in the boats continued near the wreck until they had obtained a small supply of provisions when they shaped a course for land ; but here it is to be regretted they made a fatal error. At the time the accident happened they were cruising on the Equator in the longitude of about 118[?] degrees West with the Marquesan and Society Islands on their lee and might have sailed in their boats to either of those groups in a comparatively short time. Under an erroneous impression however that all those lands were inhabited by an inhospitable race of people they preferred pulling to windward for the coast of Peru and in the attempt were exposed for a lengthened period in extreme privations.A few Cachalots have been noted individually as animals dangerous to attack. One was thus distinguished on the cruising ground off the coast of New Zealand and was long know to whalers by the name of 'New Zealand Tom.' He is said to have been of great size conspicuously distinguished by a white hump ; and famous for the havoc he had made amongst the boats and gear of ships attempting his destruction. A second example of cimilar celebrity was known to whalers in the Straits of Timor. He had so often succeeded in repelling the attacks of his foes as to be considered invincible but was at length despatched by a whaler who forewarned of his combative temper adopted the expedient of floating a cask on the sea to withdraw his attention from the boats ; but notwithstanding this ruse the animal was not destroyed without much hard fighting nor until the bow of one of the boats had been nipped off by his jaws.,
ID294,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,08,15,inform,Emigration.–There are at present at the port of London alone no fewer than twenty-three vessels on the berth taking in goods and passengers for Sydney New South Wales ; eight for Hobart Town and Lan[?]ceston ; four for Port-Philip and give for South Australia ; being a greater number of emigrant ships for the southern hemisphere on the berth at one time than was every previously known.,
ID295,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,10,28,inform,William The Missionary.–The sum already subscribed for the widow and family of this deeply lamented individual amounts to t1658 18s. 10d. Amongst the subscriptions we notice t32 from the Wesleyan Chapel at Adelaide South Australia.,
ID296,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1840,12,05,inform,Emigration to New Zealand– The Chartists Again.(From the Glasgow Argus.)On Monday night a public meeting chiefly composed of the working classes was held in the Justiciary Court Hall Glasgow for the purpose of memorializing Lord John Russell in favour of obtaining the Lord Provost in the chair. The hall was crowded to excess and it was perfectly evident from the first that the Chartists had mustered in great strength to carry out their usual course of obstruction to the particular business of the evening.–Mr T. Gillespie proposed a resolution in favour of emigration to New Zealand through the medium of funds raised by the sale of lands in the colony and addressed the meeting at some length in support of the resolution.–Mr R. Malcolm jun. a young lad and a Chartist spouter after a long speech proposed an amendment; to the effect that while the meeting was favourable to emigration to New Zealand or any other part of the world by those so disposed they objected to any application being made for a grant of public money for any such purpose–that they were opposed to the question of emigration being allowed to occupy public attention &c. and concluded with the statement that emigration would not afford even temporary relief to the oppressed operatives and that bad laws were the chief cause of all their present sufferings &c. This amendment which was supported by the most trifling arguments we ever heard brought forward in public was of course loudly cheered by the Chartists. The Lord Provost repeatedly explained that he had agreed to take the chair on the understanding that the subject of emigration to New Zealand was to occupy the attention ; but here a matter perfectly foreign to the business for which they were convened was introduced by way of amendment ; there was an attack made upon the general policy of the country–and he had positively to state that if such an amendment was carried he would not remain in the chair. This was received by cries for a new chairman and much confusion one party cheering and the other hissing and yelling alternately during the greater part of the evening. A discussion followed in which a boy named Jack took a prominent part ; and it became perfectly evident that the Chartist speakers were woefully ignorant of the subject they had the impudence to discuss. It was gravely and indignantly averred that by going to New Zealand the working men would incur the risk of being swallowed by cannibals! Till informed of the contrary the Chartists seemed to think that the means of emigration were to be supplied from the public exchequer ; and when told that the funds were to be raised by the sale of lands in New Zealand one of them sagely observed that it would be much more humane and just to appropriate the proceeds of those sales of land to employ it in sending out emigrants ! Another favourite argument was that every person had a right to subsist in the land that gave him birth and that it was barbarous and cruel to send a man however wretched out of his native country ; also that emigration would produce no benefit to society at home as the places of those sent off would soon be filled by others. Of course if these arguments had always been held good and acted upon the whole human family would to this day have been crowded together in the cradle of our race in the East provided only the thing had been possible; the extension of mankind to other parts of the world must have been wicked and cruel and useless–for for every inhabitant of a country is entitled to a subsistence in the land that gave him birth and on his removal to another land his place would just be filled by others ! The above is a mere specimen of the worse than childish arguments used by the Chartist spouters and which the men who are now knocking loudly at the door of the constitution for admission cheered as if they had been fraught with the choicest wisdom !–Mr John Crawford Secretary to the New Zealand Land Company endeavoured by some sensible remarks to place the question of emigration to New Zealand on its proper footing ; but in vain ; they were determined to have the charter only–and till then starving workmen willing but unable to emigrate must starve on. On a division the amendment proposed by Mr Malcolm was carried by a large majority and after a vote of thanks had been given to the Lord Provost the meeting broke up. This was not done however till the Chartists were called upon to be at their posts at the meeting to be held to-day to address the Queen–to render themselves of course a little more odious by another stretch of their obstructive power–if they can.,
ID297,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,03,20,inform,On Monday a discussion of some interest took place in the House of Commons relative to the affairs of South Australia. Owing to certain defects in its government that colony has fallen into a state of financial embarassment requiring immediate relief. Lord John Russell traced the history of the settlement from its foundation and stated that while its revenue does not exceed t20000 its expenditure has increased to the enormous sum of t130000 a year ! At present its affairs are managed by commissioners the responsible Ministers of the Crown having no direct control over its expenditure. This is manifestly an evil and must form the subject of future legislation but in the meantime it is necessary to provide for the payment of certain bills now over-due. Accordingly Lord John Russell proposed that her Majesty should be authorized to guarantee a loan of t210000 for this purpose. Lord Stanley concurred generally in the views of the noble Secretary for the Colonies but though that the Government ought not to demand a loan until they had brought in a bill to explain distinctly the principles on which they proposed that the colony should henceforth be governed. Sir Robert Peel suggested that the Government should ask a vote of credit for the sum required which as it met the urgency of the case was ultimately agreed upon and the subject was deferred till Friday.,
ID298,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,03,31,inform,New South WalesMr Grote rose to move a series of resolutions in con demnation of the application of a part of the Land and Emigration Fund of New South Wales to the maintenance of gaols and police in that colony. It was in 1831 that this expense antecedently borne by the Home Government was for the first time thrown upon the colony whose revenues were then found to yield considerable surplus of revenue beyond expenditure. The charge so imposed at that time was calculated to be about t25000 a year ; and had that been all the colony would have borne it without a murmur; but in fact it had ever since averaged nearly t60000. It was not reasonable to impose such a charge on the colony on account of gaols and police constituted not the ordinary uses of a colonial society but for the peculiar purposes of our transportation system. The argument urged by the Home Government was that the expense was chiefly caused by the extensive distribution of convicts by assignment throughout the colony whose settlers drew a proportional profit from the labour so assigned. But that assignment was a gain not more to the colonists who obtained the labour than to the mother country which saved the expense of maintaing the labourers. Whatever value the mother country might be entitled to claim for the labour of the convicts ought in strictness to fall not on the colony at large but on the individual employers; and if there were valid reasons against an exaction of premium from them still it was unjust to throw the obligation upon the colony at large. That was to pay private wages out of public rates. This one charge on the oclony was sufficient on account for all that embarassment in its finances which had been growing for the last six years. It had been enabled to defray the impact only by resorting to the emigration fund and thus checking emigration itself. No less than t260000 had been abstracted from that fund to meet these costs of jails and police. The diversion of that fund from emigration was a great evil both to the colony where labour is so pressingly needed and to the poor of this country to whom that refuge is so material. He considered the emigration fund as held by the Government in trust for the united intersts of the colony and of the mother country. The great extent of sales of land in the colony had been [?] owing to the belief of the colonists that the proceed[?] would be applied to emigration.The hon. member was proceeding to cite the opinions of various persons in favour of this strict application when a motion was made to count the House and it adjourned for want of its quorum[?] of 40 members.,
ID299,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,04,14,inform,Emigration To New South Wales.We have received a copy of a Series of Resolutions passed on the 23d of October 1840 by the Legislative Cuncil of New South Wales on the subject of immigration into colony. The object of these resolutions is to encourage emigration from the mother country by showing the demand for labour in New South Wales and the advantages offered to the immigrant. We have only room for a few of the more important resolutions :?Resolved. That there exists throughout the colony an urgent and increasing want of working hands in every branch of industry ; that there is ample employment for emigrants at highly renumerating wages without the interruption in this mild climate experienced in colder countries during the winter months ; and that even during the worst period of the past severe drought no persons able and willing to work found any difficult in procuring advantageous employment.Resolved. That in the opinion of this Council there can be no more advantageous field for the employment of industry than is presented in New South Wales– experience proving that able-bodied sober industrious and careful emigrants may within a few years after their arrival rise form the condition of labourers to be themselves employers of labour; by which process and by the progressive increase of the flocks and herds of the colony a constant demand for additional labourers is created sufficient to remove all apprehension of a dearth of employment for as many as may arise.Resolved. That this Council would particulary instance the large and increasing sums at the credit of the working classes in the Savings Bank of New South Wales as affording gratifying evidence of their prosperous condition the deposits having increased from t24469 the amount on 31st December 1835 to t127000 on 31st August 1840.Resolved. That great additiona advantage must accrue to the mother country from the large consumption in this colony of British produce and manufactures the declared value of which from 1826 to 1839 according to the official returns for that period amounted to more than eight millions sterling having progressively increased from t280000 the amount in 1826 to t1251969 in 1839 ; whilst the exports from the colony including the produce of the fisheries increased from t106600 in the former year to t948776 in the latter–the total amount being t6187530 for the whole period.Resolved. That the trade between the mother country and this colony together with the whale fisheries in the adjourning seas also affords a valuable nursery for seamen important in this respect in proportion to the distance from Great Britain and calculated to strengthen and secure her maritime power ; and that this field for the employment of British shipping must increase with the growing prosperity of the colony– considerations which appear to this Council to constitute a strong additional claim on the part of the colony to the fostering care of the British Government.,
ID300,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,04,07,inform,Emigration to New Zealand.–On Friday the Tyne left the London Dock and proceeded down the river on her voyage to Port Nicholson New Zealand. The Tyne is a fine new vessel and she takes out 50 mechanics and labourers with their families from the Emigration Depot at Deptford besides a number of other passengers amongst whom are Mr Swainson Chief Justice and Mr Martin Attorney-General of the new colony to which sations they have been recently appointed. The arrangements for the comfort of the emigrants on board were certainly very complete ; and it must be gratifying to know that those persons sent out by the company will be provided with a large proportion of their provisions fresh a great quantity of patent preserved provisions being shipped for that purpose on board the Tyne. There are a greater number of children than usual in the Emigration Depot–many of the families consisting of from eight to twelve individuals. The Prince Rupert which now lies in the London Dock will clear out on the 10th inst ; and it is supposed she will pretty well clear the depot of its present inmates.,
ID301,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,09,22,inform,New Zealand CompanyA very lively and interesting scene occurred on Friday off the West India Dock entrance at Blackwall by the preparation for departure of three fine vessels with improvers for Nelson the second colony of New Zealand. The Directors of the Company and several hundred persons of rank and wealth met there to bid farewell to the enterprising emigrants who appeared highly delighted with the honour extended to them and in high spirits with the anticipations of the successful result of their mission. After viewing the arrangeents made for the comfort of all on board the Directors returned to the West India Dock Tavern where a sumptuous breakfast was provided in the large room. The Duke of Sussex took the chair and was supported on the right by the Earl of Devon and on the left by Jos. Somes Esq. the Governor of the Com pany. Among the guests were the Duchess of Inverness the Duke and Duchess of Somerset Lords Cottenham Sandon Marcus Hill Clements Viscount Ebrington M.P. the Hon. Frederick Dundas Hon. Captain Drummon Messrs P. Maxwell Stewart M.P. Gowen G. F. Young W. C. Young and the Misses Young; the Hon. Mrs Douglas the Hon. Miss Petre Rev Dr Hinds J. E. Boulcott Captain Hine Sir Robert and Lady Harland Sir John Doxatt M. D.; Mr Mrs and Miss Pennington; Lieutenant Lean her Majesty's Emigration Agent; MEssrs Jordan E. G. Wakefield Dudley Costello Mr and Mrs S. C. Brees Captain Sinclair R.N.&c. &c. The rapid progress which the grand undertaking of colonizing New Zealand has made was more than once alluded to by his Royal Highness and other distinguished speakers on both sides of politics and its many advantages were dwelt upon with much sincerity of feeling. Several gentlemen of the first families go out with this expedition which will be closely followed by several first-rate ships.,
ID302,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,10,09,inform,Emigration to South Australia (From Tuesday's Gazette)Colonial Land and Emigration Office 9 Park street Westminster Oct. 1 1841.–In reference to the notice published in the Royal Gazette of the 6th of August last to the effect that all emigrants in respect of whom bounty was to be claimed in New South Wales must have left this country by the 1st of November next the Commissioners of Land and Emigration do hereby give further notice in pursuance of directions from her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies that in order to prevent the consequences which must ensue if vessels should continue to be engaged until too late to be dispatched by the required date no ships can be permitted to sail with a claim to bounty from the Colonial Government beyond those which shall be forthwith returned to the Commissioners of Colonial Lands and Emigration and proved to be already under engagement for the purpose.–By order of the Board John Gliddon Assis.-Sec.,
ID304,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,11,17,inform,Wellington New Zealand June 18.– (From a private letter.)–Among the latest arrivals is Mr Swainson F.R.S. the eminent naturalist by the Jane from London. He has purchased a house and intends to reside here with his family. The Governor Captain Hobson is daily expected from Auckland on a visit to Colonel Wakefield the company's agent. Several emigrant ships have lately reached us. The Katherine Stewart Forbes from London has just entered the harbour.,
ID305,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,11,24,inform,Emigration.–The following data will show the number of emigrants from the United Kingdom with their destination during the year 1840 derived from official sources:–To N. American Col. 27025 To Van Diem. Land 281 United States 38495 West Australia 233 West Indies 1938 Port-Philip 3201 Cape of G. Hope 513 South Australia 2911 Sydney 7811 New Zealand 1330 Total 83746,
ID306,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,12,22,inform,Tailors.–In 1836 the number of tailors and slopmakers in the town was 500 and these were fully employed; at present there are only 250 and these but partially employed; leaving 250 who are unemployed. Some have left the town and others are gone to America or Australia.,
ID307,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,12,25,inform,Emigration.A Return just published shows that emigration is still proceeding upon a gigantic scale:–Emigrants from the United Kingdom in 1840. England. Scotland. Ireland. Total. To North American colonies 5303 3053 23935 32293 United States 35309 1246 4087 400 Other parts of America 44 – – 44 West Indies 745 687 159 1591 The Cape 315 8 – 323 Australia and New Zealand 14495 817 538 15850 56213 5811 28719 90743We have not the previous Returns at hand but we believe that a larger number of emigrants never left the shores of the British Isles in one year than the above. It is startling to think that 1800 persons quit the kingom every week never to return. The natural increase of the people must be about 1100 per day of whom emigration carries off 250 leaving 850 to swell the Census.The emigration to our North American colonies was as follows:–To Canada 21209 –New Brunswick 8056 – Newfoundland 387 –Nova Scotia 972 –Cape Breton 437 Prince Edward's Island 1214 Hudson's Bay 18 32293To Australia it was:– Swan River 224 South Australia 2748 Port Philip 3473 Sydney 7 Van Diemen's Land 299 14392,
ID308,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,12,29,inform,Theatre Royal.–The Pantomine we observe is postponed till Friday. Meanwhile the theatre is crowded nightly the public being admitted at second price from the commencement of the performances.Music Hall.–We stated about two month ago that in connection with other improvements in the Assembly Rooms a plan was under consideration for erecting a Music Hall. We are now happy to announce that at a meeting of the proprietors of the Rooms last week full pwers were given to the Directors to take the requisite steps for carrying the design into execution. The desire so long felt by the cultivators of music here will soon be realisd by the erection of a splendid hall constructed with a due regard to the accommodation both of professional men and the public and with a minute attention to the most recent improvements by which full effect is secured to musical performances when conducted on a grand scale. By what may be called a propitious coincidence Mr Bishop the new Professor of Music arrived in Edinburgh on the very day when this resolution was come to.Martin's Paintings.–The exhibition of these celebrated paintings in this city has already we believe attracted many visitors. They are truly wonderful creations and possess a power and grandeur of which the engravings so familiar to the public convey but a faint conception. In contemplating the Deluge the spectator is so [?] [?] [?] the scene that he is apt to overlook the details; but these will be found on inspection to be among the most interesting features of the picture. The groups of perishing beings are exquisitely wrought while everything is made to contribute to the terrific grandeur of the catastrophe. The other two pictures–Pandemonium and the Rivers of Bliss are smaller in size but equally indicative of the high poetic genius of the artist. Nothing could be more striking than the contrast these pictures present to each other–the one fearful beyond expression the other exhibiting a heavenly serenity and loveliness on which the eye rests with delight. There are several other valuable paintings in this collection amongst which is The Offering Up of Isaac a Rembrandt in fine preservation.Gordon's British Diorama.–This beautiful exhibition opened on Saturday last and has we understand been crowded with visitors ever since. It will be seen by Mr Gordon's advertisement in to-day's paper that the view of the Tower of London during the recent conflagration (to which we alluded in our last) has now arrived and is being exhibited along with the other views.Broughton-place Congregation.–We understand that the call given by Broughton Place Congregation to the Rev. Mr Croon Sanquhar to be colleague to the Rev. Dr. Brown has not been accepted owing to the strong claims which the affectionate people among whom he presently labours have to continuance of his services and his unfitness as he alleges for a charge so laborious; a result which we learn has caused among the members of Broughton-Place extreme and general regret.Cooke's Equestrian Amphitheatre Leith.–Mr Cooke has generously handed over to the Provost for the benefit of the Destitute Sick Society the handsome sum of t15; being the free proceeds of Friday evening's entertainment which took place under the patronage of the Provost and Magistrates.Captain Ross' Discoveries.–Extracts from Captain Ross' despatches have been published in a Parliamentary paper. From the map which accompanies the paper we gain a more distinct idea of his track than the previous article copied from the Athenean[?] afforded. South Victoria Land which he discovered extends in latitude from 70 1/2 south to 79 how much farther is unknown; and in longitude its eastern coast lies between 163 and 171. Its position is directly south from New Zealand and at the distance of 1500 geographical miles. The length of the part seen was fully 500 miles. It was girt with a border of ice many miles in breadth which rendered it inaccessible. The passage southward was closed at latitude 78 by a barrier of ice 150 feet high which was traced for 300 miles east from Victoria Land. Icebergs were encountered in numbers after they passed parallel of 63 and pack ice at 66. The land rose in lofy peaks from 9000 to 12000 feet in height perfectly covered with eternal snow; the glaciers descended from near the mountain summits project many miles into the ocean and presented a perpendicular face of lofty cliffs. They could not reach the mainland but landed on an island which they found to consist of volcanic rocks. On 28th January in latitude 77 1/2 longitude 169 E. they discovered a magnificent volcano emitting smoke and flame in a splendid profusion and named it Mount Erebus. An extinct one near it was named after the other vessel Mount Terror. At the distance of less than half a mile from the ice cliffs which barred their progress southward they had sound ings with 318 fathoms. These cliffs no doubt reached the bottom and including the 150 feet above water must have had an elevation fo 2000 feet of thereabout. The observations on the dip and declination induced them to place the South Magnetic Pole in latitude 76 and east longitude 153; and they considered its position as well ascertained as if they had reached it though their nearest approach to it was a point 160 miles from it on the east coast of Victoria Land. The pole is probably within that region though this cannot be positively affirmed as its western boundary is unknown. The highest latitude they reached 78. 4. They were therefore only 12 degrees from the pole and about 4 degrees nearer to it than Captain Weddel[?] the most successful of their predecessors. The Non-intrusion Disclosures.–In the Advertiser of yesterday there is a letter from J. M. Hog Esq. of Newliston and another from the Rev. Dr Simpson of Kirknewton both expressing their extreme surprise at the letter of Mr Hamilton (which appeared in our last) and strongly disclaiming all connexion with it on the part of the General Assembly's Committee.Sabbath Observance–The Sweetie Case. –We understand that the Government of Prussia thinking that the mode of keeping the Sabbath in that country was in some respects too lax recently sent over a person to this country to learn whether our practise in Britain would not furnish hints for improvement. Unluckily the very first specimens of our piety which met him were the sweetie case and that of the poor man Key who was excommunicated for burying his child on Sunday. These will of course figure in the very front of the officer's report as the natural fruits of our system and we may guess what their effect will be in reconciling the Germans to a stricter observance of Sunday! We can moreover inform Butters' prosecutors that the fame of their exploits has already travelled by the aid of the Teutonic newspapers to the uttermost parts of Germany to the infinite amusement of the Swabian farmers the Saxon miners and the shepherds of the Riesengeberge. Key's case is no doubt destined to enjoy equal celebrity.Airdrie–Anti-Corn-Law Conference.– On Monday last the members of the United Secession Church Airdrie favourable to a repeal of the Corn and Provision Laws met in compliance with the request of the Committee taking the active management of the Conference to be held in Edinburgh on the second week in January next on that subject when they unanimously appointed their pastor the Rev. Matthew M'Gavin A.M. Mr John Craig Waddell proprietor and Mr James Forrester merchant in Airdrie to represent their sentiments at that meeting which is looked forward to with great interest by the liberal portion of the inhabitants of the burgh. The Rev. Mr Taylor with Messrs Adam Nimmo contractor and John Young bookseller will represent the Independent congregation; and Mr Thomas Muir pastor of the Baptist church will represent that body on that occasion.Kirkcudbright–Address to the Dean of Faculty–We learn that at a meeting held on the 17th current of the Clerks and Procurators of the Steward and COmmissary Courts an address was voted to Alexander Wood Esq. on his appointment to the office of Dean of Faculty and his retirement from that of Steward of Kirkcudbright.Distress in Paisley.–We understand that the Bookbinders of Edinburgh purpose to give a Grand Musical Melange in a few days the proceeds of which are to be handed over to the committee for the distressed weavers in Paisley.Musselburgh.–Mr Wilson Treasurer to the Honest Town has by the hands of the district committeesm collected from the contributors to the Prince of Wales fund nearly t100; and the committees have already distributed 130 tons of coals to the necessitous families in the neighbourhood.Presbytery of Dalkeith–Case of Mr Monroe.–This Presbytery met on Tuesday the 21st current. At a former meeting an agent appeared for Mr Monroe presentee to Fala and laid on the table of Presbytery a presentation in his favour to the parish of Fala. It having been objected that the presentation and some other papers relative thereton bore that Mr Monroe was presented merely to the parish of Fala and not to the united parishes of Fala and Soutra the agent made his appearance again at the meeting which was held on Tuesday with a supplementary presentation and also a letter acceptance from Mr Monroe. The agent when asked admitted that he had not with him a Presbyterial certificate; and he stated that he would not ask the Presbytery to sustain the presentation with relative papers at that meeting. But he intimated that he intended to appear at the next meeting which is appointed to be held on the 22d of February and he expected to be able to show that the Presbytery should then sustain the presentation and relative documents.Splendid Meteor.–On Tuesday evening about eight o'clock a meteor of unusal size and splendour was witnessed in this quarter. The evening was very clear the sky being without a cloud and the moon shining brightly. Suddenly a dazzling blaze of light burst from the sky illuminating Benlomond and the distant hills the Curse around Craigforth and indeed the earth and air on every side as far as the eye could reach with all the brilliancy of noon-day. The phenomenon appeared like a ball of fire of an oblong shape and apparently almost twice the size of the moon having at the time somewhat of the same silvery appearance as that luminary but flaming with a brilliancy so intense as almost to dazzle the eyes. A tail of fire somewhat resembling that of a rocket but composed of the most beautifully varied colours streamed behind it for a short distance adding much to its spendour and giving the whole an appearance at once singularly magnificent and sublime. Before it disappeared it assumed a red glowing appearance and then burst for an instant enveloping the earth and sky in a blaze as bright and dazzling as the most vivid lightning. It appeared to pass from the south to the north inclining towards the earth. To the eye it seemed to burst and disappeared above Gargunnock. Another meteor of the same kind but much less in size brilliancy and splendour was observed falling in a quartr rather farther to the south a few minutes previously. It is a coincidence worthy of notice that a meteor of the same nature with that first described in the above was seen at the same hour in Glasgow.–Stirly Journal.Glasgow.–The collection made on Sabbath afternoon last by the Rev. Mr Macfarlane's congregation Nicholson Street Glasgow amounted to t46 7s. 6d. This sum is the more praiseworthy when it is considered that this congregation has within a few months subscribed among themselves nearly t1000 for the erection of their beautiful place of worship to be called Erskine Church of which they are erelong to take possession.The Unemployed in Paisley.–The number of unemployed in Paisley has last week decreased by 43. In Kilbarchan and Barrhead they were still on the increase. The following is the official report of yesterday for Paisley and Barrhead :–Paisley. Males 1865 Dependants 4662 –6527 Females 1680 Dependants 3360 –5040 Total 11567 Barrhead. December 17 287 ... 23 346 Increase 59 –Paisley Advertiser.The Paisley Manufacturing Committee. –This Committee continue to carry on their operations with energy and zeal. The amount of the fund now exceeds t8000 and is still on the increase. They have given out about 700 webs already and are as busy as possible preparing more. Unable to get a sufficiency of webs warped in Paisley they have sent for assistance in this respect both to Glasgow and Johnstone. A good deal of work has this week been given to warpers winders and heddle-casters. They have taken much more spacious premises in Gilmour Street in order that they may the more easily supply both town and country weavers. It is desirable that the implement fund should be somewhat enlarged as the other funds of the Committee are not trenched on for that purpose –Ibid.Ducal Generosity.–After the late county meeting at Hamilton at which addresses were voted to the Queen and Prince Albert his Grace the Duke of Hamilton and several of those who had attended the meeting visited the jail. One respectable looking female attracted his Grace's attention; and on inquiry he was told that she was the widow of a respectable wood merchant now deceased and had been confined for upwards of a year at the instance of a law agent in Edinburgh for costs incurred in a suit in the Court of Session. His Grace immediately caused the truth of the poor woman's story to be investigated and on being satisfied of the facts he caused the debt to be paid by his factor and procured the woman's liberation who has thus through his Grace's generosity been restored to liberty and to the superintendence of her young family.–Reformers' Gazette.Presentation.–A number of the members of the United Secession Church Airdrie met in their vestry on the evening of Wednesday the 22d inst. when Councillor Brown in name of the congregation presented the Rev. M. M'Gavin A.M. their pastor with a handsome pulpit gown and cassock as a mark of their respect and esteem; after which a number of the influential members of the congregation entertained him to supper supper in Mr Witherspoon's King's Arms Inn– Mr Daniel Gray collector Coltness Railway in the chair and Dr Clarkson croupier–when the evening was spent in the most friendly happy and intellectual manner.A Rescue.–Last week while the Duke of Hamilton was riding along the wood leading from Hamilton to Bothwell he heard the screams of a female and on looking towards the place whence the cries came he perceived a stout Irishman belabouring a woman in a most unmerciful style. No sooner did he observe this than he rode up to the scene of cruelty dismounted from his horse knocked the savage down rescued the woman and sent her home rejoicing with more money in her pocket than it may have been her lot to possess for a long time. When we recollect that his Grace was born so long ago as October 1767 and so is in his 75th year we cannot sufficiently admire his gallantry humanity and intrepidity– Glasgow Chronicle. Town Council.–The usual meeting of Council did not take place yesterday in consequence of the Christmas holidays.House of Industry.–We understand that Miss Grace Bailie had left a legacy to the Edinburgh House of Industry of ten pounds sterling.Old Church.–The Lords of her Majesty's Treasury have officially intimated to the parties interested their intention to adhere to the original arrangement made with the Town Council for altering the Assembly Aisle and rendering it fit to be permanently used as a place of worship for the accomodation of one of the city congregations.Prince of Wales Fund.–In the table of sums subscribed in the different Wards of Police published in our paper of Saturday last that indicated for the 26th Ward was t120 12s. 9d. Mr Lindores the General Commissioner requests us to state that the sum subscribed in his Ward was t275 12s. 9d. and that the difference between the two sums is the amount of the very handsome subscriptions by the Banks in St Andrew Square and which were drawn by the Treasurer.Presentation of Plate.–On Friday afternoon about fifty citizens entertained Mr William Donaldson of the Albion Cloth Company to an elegant dinner and dessert in the Turf Hotel Princes Street for the purpose of presenting him with a testimonial of their esteem subscribed for by the members of the Celtic Lodge and other private friends. Mr William Wright hat manufacturer was in the chair supported on the right and left by the guest of the evening Mr Pritchard of the Theatre-Royal and other gentlemen. Mr Dick of the Albion officiated as croupier. After the usual loyal and preliminary toasts had been given the chairman called for a bona fide bumper for the toast of the evening and after passing a handomse eulogium on those various qualities of their guest which had endeared him to all his friends neighbours and acquaintances far and wide presented to Mr Donaldson in the name of the subscribers a very elegant and massive silver tea set of the value of t50. Mr Donaldon's health was then proposed and drunk with warm and friendly enthusiasm. The presentee replied to the compliment in modest and appropriate terms. The company spent an exceedingly happy and convivial night; the chairman and croupier taking care that there should be no flagging in the jovialty. The toasts were suitable to the occasion. Mr Mackenzie's instrumental band played appropriate airs to the various toasts and sentiments; and vocal music from amateurs was never wanting; the guest himself being a host in that department. The following inscription is neatly engraved on the various pieces of playe :–To Mr William Donaldson R.W.M. of the Lodge Celtic of Edinburgh and Leith from a number of Masonic and other Friends.–24th Dec. 1841.Theft and Recovery of a Pony.–At a late hour on Sunday night a gentleman residing in the southern part of the town dismounted from his pony at his own gate and proceeding inwards leaving the animal to follow as he was wont to do to the stable. On looking about he observed a young man whom he supposed to be his son take the reins and mount the pony. Shortly afterwards the son came into the house and the question of Where is the pony? soon convinced the parties that it was stolen. They immediately proceeded in search and while the gentleman was giving information at the Police-Office his son discovered the pony with a rider on the North Bridge. He immediately seized the reins and made a clutch at the thief; but the latter very adroitly threw himself off at the opposite side ran down the Fleshmarket stairs and escaped.Providential Recovery.–One day last week a fine little child about five years of age belonging to one of the villagers at Ratho having dandered[?] away with another little play-fellow like himself to a little distance from the house fell into a deep well. His companion was found standing weeping at the edge. The apparently dead body of the little one being got out was taken home and all hopes of its recovery given up when Dr Pringle and excellent young gentleman who is presently assistant of Dr Craig at Ratho made his appearance and by applying himself with indefatiguable perseverance succeeded in recalling the apparently extinguished spark. The next the little romp was as lively as ever.Mungo Park.–A public meeting was held in the town hall of Selkirk on Monday the 26th current the Chief Magistrate in the chair; when various resolutions were adopted with the view of erecting a monument or other permanent mark of respect for the memory of this celebrated traveller.Thimble-Riggers.–A band of thimble-riggers from Edinburgh have for several weeks past been infesting the roads in the neighbourhood of Glasgow. They are six in number and one of them an old man of rather respectable appearance is generally in advance of the party and having got into conversation with a passenger on the road and the others running up and desiring the old man to try his luck; he does so and winning a trifle he easily persuades the person with whom he has been ingratiating himself to try also and he is soon robbed of his whole spare cash. Information having on Wednesday last been given to the Procurator-Fiscal at Pollokshaws and the gang were on the new Kilmarnock Road he immediately despatched two rural police officers in pursuit of them. On the officers coming up to the gang they separated and ran off but the officers captured two of them (the old man and another) who were safely lodged in Pollokshaws Jail; and having been brought before two of the Justices and several person having sworn to being defrauded by them of their money they were sentenced tothirty days' imprisonment in Paisley House of Correction with hard labour as rogues and vagabonds; and an active look-out is made by the police for the remainder of the gang.Stoppage of Payments by the Town of Paisley.–Partly on account of the great depression of trade and partly on account of a run raised by the circulation of malicious and false statements regarding the affairs of the community of Paisley theTown Council at a meeting on Wednesday evening ordered the Chamberlain to susspend receipt or payment of deposits in the meantime but to proceed with all possible despatch in realizing the outstanding debts due to the community for the regular payment of the interest on the money borrowed and other current engagements of the burgh. It is pretty generally known that a small portion of the would-be-political leaders of the town who have not the influence to get themselves placed in municipal authority have for a good number of years endeavoured to embarass the party in power by attacking the credit of the community. The unfavourabout state of trade and the leniency of the Council in not enforcing during the last year the exactions on the owners of property for entries &c. falling due caused a deficiency of nearly t300 in the usual amount of revenue. This simple circumstance was taken advantage of though nothing was lost thereby and statements prejudicial to the town's credit were placed in the hands of every credito that could be found by the individuals referred to and thus uncalled for alarm raised. In addition to this the adherents of the same party in the Council during the last five days gave currency to another statement which they knew to be quite untrue about the late Provost having commenced to secure himself by drawing a thousand pounds when the fact was he had not drawn out a penny. From the position to which which the affiars the town are now driven a full and public exposure of these matters will soon be submitted to the creditors. The Council have been negotiating for such a loan of money as will pay off those who are dissatisfied which in the ordinary state of the money market they would long since have obtained though at present that is difficult. As regards risk to the creditors from the best informed quarters we are assured there is none. More than one-third of the whole debts of the town are due to the Bank and the members of Council or their immediate friends and fully a half of the debt against the river is due to the same parties. This we should conceive the strongest proof that could be adduced of the confidence of those who should best know the state of the town's affairs.–Glasgow Chronicle.Disgraceful Trick.–At a late wake in the country a short way from Crieff a waggish fellow tied a cord secretly to the neck of the corpse and while a number of young men and women present were going on merrily with some sport the wag pulled the cord when corpse started up in the bed making the clothes to fly off; the whole party rushed to the door crying for mercy upon them and knocking each other over in the hurry when at length some people came to their assistance who afterwards discovered the cause of their terror.–Perth Courier.The Church Question.–Long ago Dr Chalmers let out the secret of the clerical movement by declaring that very little of Non-intrustion would satisfy him and his friends provided the independent power of the Church were secured. Now this liberum arbitrium does nothing at all for Non-intrusion; but it does a great deal for Church Independence. It confers no privilege on the laity; but it adds immeasurably to the power of the clergy. It is in fact the very worst part of the claims that have been advanced by the Church; and its effects would simply be to sacrifice the lay Non-intrusionists on the one hand and clerical Moderates on the other. It means literally uncontrolled power to the Church The General Steam Navigation Company's ship Monarch Captain Fraser arrived at Granton from London on Monday evening at half-past nine o'clock.Election of a Minister for Old Monk- land.–The election of a minster took place at Old Monkland Church on Thursday the 23d inst. and the right of patronage being vested in the Heritors and Kirk-Session the election might be considered a popular one. About 150 voters attended the meeting and a decided wish having been expressed by it is understood the whole of the heritors that no candidate known to be connected with the Non-intrusion party in the Church should be chosen the meeting acting upon this principle unanimously agreed to elect the Rev. Mr Johnston Greenock as minister of the parish. Considering the number of voters the unanimity that prevailed among the electors it is believed is without precedent and stongly marks the sentiments and feelings of a large and very populous parish on the present proceedings of the dominant party in th Church. Mr Johnston was proposed by General Pye Douglass of Rosehall seconded by Mr M'Caul of Daldowie and unanimously elected.–Reformers' Gazette.Destructive Fire.–About three o'clock on the morning of the 25th curt. an alarm of fire was given at Balmangan Mill in the parish of Rerwick. The premises are occupied by Mr Kissock and despite the great exertions of himself servants and neighbours the work of destruction proceeded with a degree of rapidity that rendered it impossible to save a single article. The flames in their fury having charred the rafters the roof fell in with a loud crash; and before long the entire mill with the exception of the side walls became an unbroken mass of ruins. The building contained a considerable quantity of grain and oatmeal the property of the tacksman all of which was unforunately destroyed. As the premises were found quite safe a very few hours previously suspicion of incendiarism have naturally arisen but no clue thus far has been found attaching guilt to a single individual. The fire if wilful implies the blackest malice and it is sad to think that any one could have been so wicked as to destroy what thousands are in want of and would gladly toil for if they only knew how–daily bread–Dumfries Courier.Hamilton.–Some influential persons in Hamilton and the neighbourhood have subscribed to build an Episcopal chapel in that town. We have been informed that all the requisite arrangements have been made for carrying the views of the subscribers into effect. This is one effect of the conduct of the rebellious majority of the General Assembly. Many of thsoe now friendly to the scheme never dreamed of espousing Episcopacy till they have been driven in disgust from the Church of their fathers by the conduct of their ministers; men who exist in their offices by law and yet set that very law at defiance in virtue of which they hold offices and draw their temporalities as they cantingly term their good things which alone induce some of them at least to remain members of the venerable Establishment. Who would have believed some years ago that Black Prelacy was about to be established within sight of Bothwell Brigg!,
ID309,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,12,29,inform,Another New Field for Emi grationThe Falkland Islands have been nominally a British colony for some years; but in consequence of representations made to Government by various persons interested in the trade to the South Seas a plan has at least been drawn up for establishing a body of settlers in these islands. It was submitted to the late Ministers who referred it to the Commissioners of Emigration and the Lords of the Admiralty by both of whom it was approved. Rules were prepared by the Commissioners of Emigration ; a vote of t3750 was put into the estimates for the first year's expense and we suppose passed. If steps have not been taken already to send out emigrants we presume they will be taken about the beginning of next winter which is their summer.These islands are about 300 miles from the south extremity of the American continent in a latitude corresponding with that of London. Their climate however very closely resembles that of Shetland. They have cold summers and mild winters. Snow seldom lies in them; but owing to their humidity and want of sunshine and the stormy winds which blow almost constantly wheat of barley could not be raised in them and even oats might turn out to be a precarious crop. It is doubted also if wood will grow and at present there is not a single tree in the islands. Turnips and potatoes succeed well and there is an abundance of good grass upon which some thousands of black cattle horses and hogs thrive in the wild state and sheep have been introduced and found to do well. Extensive peatbogs exist which will afford a sufficient supply of fuel. The present population consists of twenty five persons young and old–one-half of them British the other Gauchos South American Indians of a semi-civilised description. They are all stationed at Port-Louis a fine natural harbour where a British officer resides.The islands are numerous but all very small except two whose area is estimated at 13000 square miles or nearly half the extent of Scotland. They are deeply perforated by arms of the sea and probably afford a greater number of fine natural harbours than any country of equal extent in the world. Their shores afford excellent fish of many kinds and seals are exceedingly numerous.The great object in establishing a colony here is to provide a harbour of refuge and place of refitment for our ships frequenting the South Seas which are yearly increasing in number. Every vessel going to the Pacific Ocean or coming from it passes within sight of these islands or near them. At present 60 or 70 British ships pass these islands annually coming from Chili or Peru and 20 more engaged in the whale fishery. The trade to New South Wales employs 236 vessels most of which return to England by this route which will also be preferred by vessels trading to New Zealand Van Diemen's Land Port Philip and probably South Australia. From Sydney or Hort Town the distance is nearly the same by Cape Horn or the Cape of Good Hope but the prevalence of westerly winds in the parallel beyond the 30th renders the latter route the more advantageous on the outward voyage and the former on the return. The Falkland Islands are about half as distant from Britain as New South Wales.The Emigration Board recommend that Government should send out two surveyors to select an eligible site for a town and to lay out the land in blocks of half a square mile which may be subdivided. It is proposed to sell the land to emigrants at 12s. per acre and to expend part of the money in carrying out additional settlers part in defraying the colonial outlay. There are 40000 wild cattle in the largest island the privilege of shooting which or catching and taming them might be sold to the settlers or a company. The climate is uninviting but there is little doubt that persons accustomed to grazing or sheep farming or to seal hunting or deep-sea fishery might drive a profitable trade here. A vast number of ships making long voyages American French Dutch as well as British pass the islands and to these it would be a great accommodation to find supplies of provisions and the means of refitting here. Some of our starving population in the North of Scotland or the Islands might better their circumstances by removing to the Falkland Islands.,
ID310,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1841,02,17,inform,New Zealand.(From the Morning Chronicle.)The dinner given on Saturday by the New Zealand Company to Lord John Russell will serve to remove all apprehensions if any are yet entertained with regard to the relations between that colony and the Government of the parent state. Many of the first names in the country honoured this splendid banquet by their presence ; and men of all parties Tories Whigs and Radicals appeared to be actuated only by one common feeling.The public are now tolerably familiar with the natural advantages of New Zealand which appears destined to be in the Souther Ocean what Great Britain is in the Northern. Lord Ashburton with must felicity observed that the position of the New Zealand islands on the map their climate fertility abundant harbours surrounded with the seas most suited to the whale fisheries and above all the character to the native population led him to anticipate that these islands were likely to become the great seat of wealth and naval power. Lord John Russell was justly complimented on all hands for adding these important islands to the great colonial empire of this country.The speech of Lord John Russell was much and deservedly applauded.I believe said his lordship that the foundation of this colony of New Zealand will tend to the honour and dignity of the Crow and will tend to the prosperity and future greatness of the nation (cheers). It was on this ground and for these reasons that I lent my humble efforts in support of those exertions that had been made and were about to be made by the New Zealand Company. Gentlemen in so doing I should be unworthy of your approbation if I took any extraordinary merit to myself ; for in the first place the principle of colonization the value of colonies to this country the means they afford of augmenting her strength of adding to her power of promoting her wealth and of increasing her prosperity– all this has been ascertained and demonstrated by the enlightened discussions of past years (hear hear). With regard to the best mode of colonization likewise we have had the advantage and assistance of the most enlightened opinions and the most adverse discussion I therefore can only take to myself the merit of not being blind to the importance and value of those opinions and discussions (hear and cheers)But though his lordship speaks thus humbly of his own merits in recommending the adoption of these islands by the Crown it was perfectly well understood by all present that for his conduct with respect to his colony he has truly entitled himself to the gratitude of his country. Lord Ashburton only paid him a deserved tribute when he complimented him for the sagacity with which he had appreciated the importance of these islands so soon as he had entered on the administration of colonial affairs and for the judicious measure of setting up the British flag in them.We may observe that the health of her Majesty's Ministers proposed by Mr Hutt M.P. was received with loud and universal cheering and that Mr Labouchere's speech which was a very good one was well received. Upon the whole Lord John's visit to the City on this occasion is calculated to gain the Government favour among the commercial classes. His lordship may well be proud that though New Zealand was formally taken possession of in the name of the Sovereign of this country many years ago it was reserved for him to make it a British colony.,
ID311,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1842,03,19,inform,Monument to the late Earl of Dur hum.–The New Zealand Company have voted t105 towards the erection of the monument to the Earl of Durham–the noble earl having been the first governor of this important company.,
ID312,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1842,05,18,inform,There is something curious in the preference which the emigrants from England Scotland and Ireland display for different localities. The proportions emigrating the countries below are as follows:–Emigrants English Per cent. Scottish Per cent. Irish Per Cent. To United States 54 14 1/2 12 – Sydney 17 21 1/2 7 – Canada 8 1/2 25 50 – Port-Philip 8 14 7As the table expressly bears to be a return of the persons who have emigrated we can scarcely suppose that it includes persons who went out to the countries mentioned on business without any intention of settling. In the report for Canada the number who went to the United States in 1841 is stated to be only 32500 or about two thirds of what stands in the above table.It will be observed that not a single emigrant to India or Ceylon appears in the table; yet surely some persons go with the express view of remaining in these countries.The number of person who were enabled to emigrate in 1841 by means of bounties payable in the colonies was for New South Wales 22752 for Van Diemen's Land 331. It must be remembered that New South Wales includes Port Philip.There are returns of land sold but not in a very perfect form. In Canada in the year 1839 1840 and 1841 the lands sold were 176518 acres. The average price was 3s. to 3s. 8d. in Lower and 12s. to 13s. in Upper Canada; the lands granted without sale were 194000 acres exclusive of those for Lower Canada in 1841. In Nova Scotia New Brunswick and Cape Breton about 200000 acres have been sold at prices varying from 2s. 3d. to 3s. 8d. The lands granted are inconsiderable.At the Cape 129000 acres have been sold in the three years at prices from 2s. 5d. to 3s. 3d.Lands sold in New South Wales Acres. Average Price. Sydney District–1839 234272 8s 2 1/2d. 1840 105900 18s. 8 1/2d. 1841 15790 20s. 0 1/2d. Port-Philip–1839 38343 36s. 6 1/2d. 1840 83687 51s. 11 3/4d. (Six months)– 53733 20s. 0d. 531930The sales were chiefly by auction.In Van Diemen's Land the sales in 1839 1840 were about 130000 acres at 10s. or 11s.; in Western Australia (Swan River) in 1839 1840 1841 the sales were 71000 acres from 6s. 1d. to 11s.; in South Australia 55000 acres at 20s. The sales of land are no bad index of the progress of the colonies in capital and cultivation; and according to this criterion it will be seen that those which were advancing most rapidly in the three years were Sydney and Port-Philip. The money received in payment of land in these two colonies in 1839 and 1840 amounted to t307647; and if we understand the report correctly the whole of this sum is applicable to emigration that is to defraying the expense of carrying out emigrants.The 118592 emigrants probably carried with them or expended on their passage twenty pounds each; and thus the money which left the country must have amounted to upwards of two millions.This gigantic emigration one of the things which convey an idea of the immense resources of Britain. The United Kingdom contains only the ninth part of the population of Europe; and we believe it may be safely said that all the other eight parts do not send out half the number of emigrants annually which are sent by the British Isles alone.,
ID313,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1842,02,05,entertain,Australian Trust Company Incorporated by Royal Charter No. 48 Moorgate Street London.Capital t100000 in 10000 shares of t100 each with power to increase the capital to t2000000.Directors. Chairman–John Abel Smith Esq. M.P. Levi Ames Esq. . Robert How Esq. Henry Bainbridge . Esq. John Innes Esq. Thomas Byron jun. Esq. . Francis Mowatt Esq. Benjamin Green Esq. . Charles John Pearse Esq. William Hart Esq. . Hastings Elwin Esq. Langford Hovell Hodge . now in Australia Esq. Auditors. Right Hon. The Lord . Sir Edward Parry R.N. Mayor. . Nassau William Senior Abel Lewis Gower Esq. . Esq. Bankers–Messrs Smith Payne & Smiths. Solicitors–Messrs James Charles & H. Freshfield. Colonial Board in Sydney. Chairman–Hastings Elwin Esq. who was Deputy Chairman of the Court of Directors. Alexander Macleay Esq. . Richard Jones Esq. Thomas Barker Esq. . John Lamb Esq. To be joined by Thomas Icely Esq. who was a Director here and who is on his way to Sydney. Solicitor–James Norton Esq.The Company was established and incorporated (and is now in full operation) to carry out in Australia a principle which has been acted on with great success elsewhere namely that of taking up money in this country at a moderate rate of interest on the credit of a large invested capital and laying it out on undoubted freehold security at a higher rate.The Company is now prepared to grant transferable notes under the Corporation seal to persons desirous of advancing Money to the Company on loan. The notes will be for t100 each or any larger sum desired by the lender and will be made payable at any period which may be agreed upon not being shorter than two years. The notes will bear interest at the rate of five per cent per annum payable half-yearly (on the 15th January and 15th July) on the production of the half-yearly vouchers which will be annexed to each note: these vouchers or coupons will render it unnecessary for the holder of a note to present the note itself until the principal becomes due. The form of note has been preferred to that of bond as admitting of transfer without expense or trouble whilst it affords equal security to the holder.The Colonial Board has been established in Sydney and the operation of the Company are at present confined to New South Wales.Security being the first object of the Company all the arrangements have been framed with the view to attain that end.The Loans are made at a fixed interest of 10 per cent although the current rate is much higher. The land mortgaged (exclusive of collateral security) must not be of less value than double the amount of the loan. The non-payment of interest on the day it becomes due subjects the mortgager to 2 1/2 per cent additional interest for the period in arrear; and all parties in default for ten days are to be proceeded against the Solicitor of the Company without further instructions and without distinction or exception of any person whatever. The Colonial Board only draws on the Company as loans are agreed on; their bills must be advertised for public competition and the purchasers pay the amount in exchange for the Bill to the Bank of Australasia (the Capital of which is t120000) to the credit of the Company to be drawn out by checks of the Colonial Board in favour of the borrowers as the mortgages are completed.The high character of the members of the Colonial Board affords the fullest assurance that these arrangements will be strictly adhered to in spirit as well as in form; no difficulty has been experienced in investing the full monthly amount sanctioned by the instructions of the Court of Directors: indeed the Chairman of the Colonial Board states that he does not entertain the smallest doubt of a safe investment of all the funds which may be placed at the disposal of the Colonial Board.The high rate of interest in Australia has attracted much private capital from this country to be invested in mortgages. These investments have been made through the agency of individuals or mercantile firms and therefore subject to contingencies from which the Company is exempt. To those who may desire to make such investments it must be obvois that the stock of the Company presents a much superior security and the prospect of a greatly increased return inasmuch as the Company derives a large profit by lending at 10 per cent in Australia the money borrowed here at half that rate.It is equally clear that those who merely seek temporary employment for their money without becoming shareholders cannot have a better security than the Promissory Notes of the Company for the due payment of which the whole capital of the Company as well as the mortgages on which the money is laid out stand pledged. Every shareholder is required to execute in a Deed of Covenant by which he becomes bound to pay to the full amount of his shares and the Charter supplies Creditors with the utmost facility in enforcing demands against the Company. When it is considered that the funds of the Company here are kept in Government Securities and no money lent in Australia except on the best mortgages on land with collateral security in addition it may be fairly asserted that in many respects the Promissory Notes are entitled to a decided preference over mortgages in this country which generally bear one per cent. less interest than that paid by the Company.The Charter provides that the sums borrowed shall not exceed four times the amount of capital paid up.That the whole capital of the Company and all the mortgages on which their money is lent in Australia shall constitute a security to the lenders of money to the Company.That the mortgages are to be on land with the power of taking collateral security on stock &c.That every mortgage shall be registered–the register to contain such particulars as the Governor of the colony may deem necessary.That a copy of the register of the mortgages shall be kept at the office of the Company in London for the information of the share-holders and lenders.That an annual report be made to the Lords of the Treasury of all sums borrowed by the Company and of the appropriation of them.John Innes Managing Director. No. 48 Moorgate Street. London 1st January 1842,
