Article ID,Newspaper Title,Newspaper City,Newspaper Province,Newspaper Country,Year,Month,Day,Article Type,Text,Keywords
ID158,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,01,13,inform,Emigration to Canada.About ten days ago an emigrant arrived from Canada to Paisley and brings very favourable intelligence from that country. He is a native of Scotland ; was some time in the army ; and is going home again as he calls it early in the spring. This person gives the most satisfactory and cheering account of the place and says his chief complaint was the want of society to share in his felicities to be companion of his joys and to exult in his abundance. He adds that one of his principal reasons for coming here at present was hearing of our distressed condition and that he might be able to persuade others to follow his example ; anxious to be surrounded by happy intelligent and social neighbours. His arrival and narrations combined with other circumstances have been the subject of considerable discussion the whole of last week. A strong desire for emigration has been manifested and about 300 have already subscribed their names as a testimony of their ardour to go away. A petition is immediately to be forwarded to his Majesty's Ministers imploring their assistance by way of loan or donation to enable them to carry their wishes into execution. This petition it is said is to be supported by the principal gentlemen of the county and the utmost anxiety will doubtless prevail concerning its success. – Let us hope that Government will see the necessity of attending to the supplications of these people. The Sheriff Depute has been memorialized upon the subject to give his counsel and support in behalf of the measure and it is much to his honour that he has evinced a great disposition to favour the object in view. His office has been appointed for the reception of signatures where the persons experience the greatest kindness in every possible way. It is proper at the same time to mention that a number who were wishing to subscribe as desirous to emigrate have been rejected ; as their circumstances were not of that despairing nature as to warrant an interposition of this kind in their favour. It cannot be expected that those who enjoy a considerable degree of comfort at home or who have sufficient means of their own to emigrate without public aid ought to be included among that number destined to participate in this salutary and benevolent proposition. Some of the fiercer radicals with their accustomed zeal and spleen are busily employed in jeering and deprecating the idea of emigration and telling the people to stay and help in the recovery of their rights. They declare the whole scheme to be a mere farce intended to be played against them in order to destroy the unanimity which they say exists in the nation concerning their grand object. These querulous politicians complain of the climate of Canada and it must be granted that it resembles Italy more than Scotland being hotter in summer and coller in winter than our own island but the country is healthy the soil is fruitful and strong constitutions and longevity are as common there as in any other part of the globe. The same manners language and regulations prevail in Upper Canada as in Scotland and when people have plenty of provisions fuel and warm clothing to resist the effects of heavy snows and intense frosts the objection of cold is less worthy of consideration. – Glasgow Chronicle.,
ID159,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,01,24,entertain,Dutch Colonial Law and Negro Fortitude.(From Lavaysse's Account of Venezuela Trinidad Margaritta and Tobago just published.)Stedman after having given a picture of the cruelties practised on the negroes at Surinam relates that on his arrival in that colony a white man was flagged by a black executioner for having stolen some money from the townhouse ; and he remarked that this negro inflicted the punishment with great signs of commiseration. A negro was broken on the wheel for the same crime and he bore that horrible punishment without a sigh. A moment afterwards they prepared to hang another and whilst the hangman was tying the cord round his neck to launch him into eternity he looked steadfastly with a smile of contempt at his judges who were among the spectators of the execution. Having expressed to the persons who were near me (says Captain Stedman) how much I was shocked with the injustice and cruelty of those executions and surprised at the intrepidity of the negroes during the punishment a very decent looking man thus addressed me ; Sir you are newly arrived from Europe ; but if you were better acquainted with negro slaves what you now see would neither excite your surprise nor your pity. It is not long since I saw a negro suspended from that very gibbet by the ribs. The following is the manner in which it was done : two incisions were made in his side in which was passed an iron hook attached to a chain. He lived three days suspended in that manner his head and feet hanging down licking from his bleeding breast the drops of water that fell on it for it rained at the time. The sufferer did not however utter a groan and never once complained. On the third day another negro was flogged under the gallows and having cried from pain the former reproached him for his want of courage: Are you a man? said he to him you behave like a child! – A moment afterwards the soldier who was sentry on the spot taking pity on him dashed out his brains with the butt end of his musquet. I saw another negro quartered the narrator: After his arms and legs were tied to four very strong horses an iron nail was driven under each nail of his hands and feet He suffered that without complaining requested a glass of ru and ordered the executioners to let loose the horses. But that which amused us most continued this monster was the humour of the fellow who when the hangman presented the glass of rum to him that he had asked for told him to drink first as he was very much afraid of bepoisoned and desired him to take care that his horses should not kick him. As for old negroes being broken on the wheel and young women burnt alive nothing is more common in this colony!,
ID160,Scostman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,01,29,inform,Mr Birkbeck's SettlementA small pamphlet has lately been published consisting of letters and extracts of letters from Mr Birkbeck of which we have been procured a copy. The author's object appears chiefly to have been to counteract the misrepresentations circulated on the subject of the settlement by Cobbett. We read Cobbett's remarks when they were first transmitted to this country and certainly did not think them worthy of the notice here bestowed upon them. His objections to the new settlement helped out as they were misquotation and misconstruction were of very little weight except in so far as they applied to all emigration whatever ; and they had really nothing to render them worth reading but the sarcasm and caustic humour which accompanied them. We should therefore have been better pleased had Mr Birkbeck allowed this restless controversist to wallow in the mire of his own endless contradiction and rather given us some more details regarding the settlement. The Americans are every year pushing forward into the wilderness ; but it is a new thing for a body of our countrymen when withdrawing from a society richly provided with all the accomodations which wants of civilized life render necessary to pass through the settled and cultivated parts of the New World and to retire to the untrodden waste a thousand miles from the sea Though the activity of commerce carries many of the convenienes and even luxuries of life to this remote place still the settlers must find such a difference in their situation as must subject them to go many privations ; and some details shewing how the colonists got over their difficulties how their various wants were supplied and how the feelings and habits of civilized life accommodated themselves to the woods and the wilderness would have been much more interesting than a reply to Cobbett's captious objections. One of the most trying privations of the colony seems to be a want of wives an evil which happily does not affect the mother country amidst all her other sufferings. The evil has probably been aggravated by some of the colonists forgetting to take their wives with them. If matters don't get better in this particular we may expect to hear of some of the adjoining American towns suffering a Sabine spoliation. A cargo of young ladies would evidently be one of the best mercantile speculations ; and as our own city had surplus of ten or twelve thousand females at the last census we have no doubt that some of our enterprising export traders will take the hint and by scouring the boarding-schools complete a choice assortment adapted to the Illinois market.The following extracts the only parts that appear to have any general interest.English Prairie July 13. 1819. My Friends and Countrymen–For your service I exhibited in two publications an outline of the process of emigration from its commencement up to the final settlement.My first opinion of this the spot of our choice and the reasoning on which that choice was grounded are before you ; and sufficient time has elapsed to try those opinnions by the test of experience by which they are confirmed in every important particular. I showed you my own tract through the gloomy forest into a delightful country better prepared for an abode by the hand of nature than the heavy woods by half a century of labour. I built me a cabin and belayed a road to it; for it was my ambition to be surrounded by my old friends and neighbours. In this too I am gratified ; and we are contented with out allotment both as to our present state and future prospects.This small district which two years ago was nearly without inhabitants contains a thriving population of from six to seven hundred persons. We have been blessed with health most unusual for a new settlement or for any settlement of equal numbers in any country ; and no doubt is entertained by us or by any judicious observer of its salubrity. We have several wells of excellent water and many more are in progress. Our soil is fertile beyond my own expectation ; but our exertions have hitherto been chiefly directed to the permanent objects of building and fencing of which much has already been done. We have however collected a stock of hogs and cattle ; and I think acres of corn are now growing than there are indivi duals in the settlement.With regard to pecuniary success the capitalist is commencing his operations or looking around him undecided as to the course he shall pursue ; but the labourer has made an establishment. It is not with him as with the capitalist a state of hope merely from good prospects but of enjoyment from good possessions. Numbers of this class and of mechanics have already realized their little freeholds and are building cabins for themselves. The fruits of their labour are not squandered in dissipation and excess because they have highr objects ; and considering their former depressed condition it is astonishing to me as it is honourable to them that they betry no arrogance in their to independence.In the statements I have published I see little to correct as far as my observation and experience have now proceeded excepting that in my view of the profits of cultivation to early settlers I have not made sufficient allowance in time for the innumerable delays and disappointments inseparable from new undertakings in a new country. A year of preparatory and unproductive exertion should be added to the debtor-side of the account at the outset.,
ID161,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,01,08,inform,Proceedings of the CourtLord Provost Manderston having been called to the Chair the Clerk Mr A. Boswell read a very distinct report of the results and general features of the transactions at the Infirmary and Queensberry House Hospital for the last year. The Lord Provost then named a Committee to examine the Treasurer's accounts &c. and report to the adjourned meeting to be held in February next.Mr John Witham junior then rose and requested leave to submit a few observations to the consideration of the Court. He stated in substance that though aware of its not being usual to vote thanks to the Managers until their accounts have been examined he was yet anxious to embrace the first opportunity of expressing his conviction that the exertions of the Managers had at last placed this valuable Institution on a most desirable footing. Although he had not visited the Hospital for the last twelve months he had not ceased to take an interest in its welfare ; and it was with great pleasure that he now stated that whether his inquiries were made of the medical attendants or of recent patients the answers were uniformly satisfactory. The Hospital was favoured with a good Matron between whom and the medical gentlemen the best understanding existed ; and the various salutary regulations of the Managers have led to such a prosperous state of things as justly to entitle them to the gratitude of this Court and the public. Still however he must say that although the Hospital was in a good state yet in his mind Visitors could not fall to afford that assistance to the Managers here and that security against internal abuses which they had done in so many other similar institutions. It was difficult to account for the prejudices which existed against this species of assistance in Edinburgh. At Leeds in addition to visitors of our sex there was a committee of ladies who visisted the female wards and from the joint labours of both classes of visitors many and great advantages had resulted. But in this city we had hospitals for females which are governed by men only without seeking any help from visitors of that sex who are much better qualified to discharge most of the duties. This view of these matters he trusted would yet be attended to.–He must also crave the attention of the meeting to another matter that of the L.11700 for which the city of Edinburgh pays only 4 1/2 per cent. He assured the Court and its Honoured Chairman that this subject was not introduced with the view of touching upon or insinuating any thing respecting the city's affairs. The money he understood was secured on the ale duty ; but why should the Hospital lose one-half per cent of interest? He had once made a calculation according to which the loss from the beginning had amounted to about L.10000. It had been stated that the Magistrates of Edinburgh had always been friendly to the Hospital ; but that was surely no reason for withholding L.59 of interest that whatever former Magistrates had thought on the subejct the present would not submit to the idea of depriving the Hospital of any part of its lawful interest. If the ground on which the Hospital was built was alluded to it was plain that town had already got more by the reduced interest than its original value. The town of Edinburgh had also got L.8273 ; 17 ; 3 of invalid money from Government on condition of paying the interest to the Infirmary which inte- rest if paid at two terms in the years should be restricted to 3 1/2 per cent. And as the property tax–which the Town did not retain from the Hospital whether they did or did not pay it to Government–is now at an end he could see no reason for withholding the usual rate of interest. He concluded by suggesting the names of several gentlemen as a Committee to lend out the sum of L.11700 on interest at 5 per cent if the Magistrates of Edinburgh should decline to pay that rate of interest.Mr Alex. Cruishank seconded the motionCol. Crichton regretted that the respectable gentlemen should have introduced such a motion. He seldom visisted the Infirmary but when he sent patients to it ; but he could state that when his servants or workmen have been there from fever the attention they received was in every respect equal to what he and he hoped he was a respectable citizen could command in his own house. But he could mention the testimony of one whose authority was much higher than his own – that of a medical gentlemen of some eminence in his profession who lives abroad and who was recently in this country. That professional gentleman spoke the very highest terms both of the medical treatment and the economy of the House. It was matter of pride he said to every Scotsman to hear the manner in which the Infirmary of Edinburgh was spoke of in all the quarters of the globe. It was the pattern of all that was excellent in such institutions and a nursery of the most skilfull practitioners ; for go where we will the answer to almost every question put with respect to improved hospi tal treatment is that it was learned in the Infirmary of Edinburgh. Whether indeed we thought of these things ; whether we looked at the sublime inscriptions on the outside of the Hospital and the Christain doctrines and principles there inculcated or the treatement and management within we could not fail to be struck with admiration and without imputing any motives which he was not entitled to do he must say it would be much more creditable to the respectable gentlemen if they should confine themselves to expressing their high opinion of the institution and tanking the Managers instead of occupying the valuable time of this Honourable Court with quibbling about trifles which were every way contemptible. After a pause Col. Crichton made a counter motion to get rid of Mr Wigham's.Lord Meadowbank reminded the Court that this matter of interest had already been under the consideration of a Committee and decided on by the Court.Henry Jardine Esq. begged to mention a fact that the Town of Edinburgh had contributed L.50 to the Infirmary for the last year.Mr Ritchie rose and said that though perfectly aware of what the result would be he could not allow the matter to be settled without giving Mr Wigham's motion his support. It gave him much pleasure to find it was no longer unfashionable to allude to Christian doctrines in such meetings as this–a change from which he anticipated much good. He concurred in what had been said on this subject by the gentleman at the foot of the Table ; but he begged to remind him that it was a great principle of Christianity that nothing was too trifling to be attended to it it promised good; and the additional interest of the money in question would obviously extend the means of healing the sick the great object of the Institution. Nothing indeed which had fallen from that gentleman or the Learned Lord on the other side could meet or touch the simple proposition that five per cent is the legal rate of interest and that the Town of Edinburgh ought not to pay less.There was another subject alluded to by Mr Wigham on which if Mr W. did not he would submit a motion namely Visitori 'And this he conceived was the fittest time for appointing them. All sides of the house were now agreed that the Hospital was admirably conducted. It was impossible therefore to suppose that the measure was proposed from any distrust of the Managers. If the management was perfect now it was too much to expect it could continue so ; and this was the proper time for providing against the future. In other places the highest characters in the land had acted with visitors ; and much benefit had been derived from them in England and even at Glasgow. If human nature therefore was not different in Edinburgh from wht it is on the other side of the Tweed and in the west of Scotland it must be admitted that Visitors would be beneficial here also. Besides as the Managers were aware of their strength and that no measure could be carried here without their consent the granting of Visitors would be a boon from themselves. He moved that this Court do annually name 24 or more Visitors to act monthly by rotation and minute such observations as shall occur to them for the consideration of the Managers.Mr Wigham seconded the motion ; but as the Court seemed averse to entertain it it was withdrawn.Mr Ritchie then said that as his last motion was intended chiefly as a caveat to the Committee named by the Lord Provost he would also with the same view state the nature of a motion which he wished to submit but the merits of which he was not then fully prepared to state. it was one however of which he was sure it would not be said that it was introduced for the purpose of giving trouble or unnecessarily occupying the time of the Court. Its object was the promotion of medical science and its nature would be understood by his reading a single paragraph from the able Clinical Reports of Dr Duncan junior. Almost all hospitals (it is there stated) publish annual Reports; but in many cases they are intended only to furnish information as to the expenditure of the funds and the names of the office-bearers and as a public acknowledgement of the support of the subscribers. Such reports however are of no use in marking the progress of disease and except for purposes mentioned above do positive harm by causing hospital reports in general to be neglected as utterly without value. This however is not the case ; and the reports we have of late years received from the Fever Hospitals of Dublin and Cork are worthy of being imitated by hospitals of every kind and in every place. Indeed the public have a right to expect this information in return for their liberality in supporting them. We have only to add that the most valuable reports often proceed entirely from the zeal of the reporters and are only occasional. This leads us to suggest that the governors of hospitals should enjoin their regular as a duty upon their medical officers ; and we will venture to say that where it has not yet been practised its good effects upon the institution in an economical as well as professional points of view will soon be apparent.–His motion went to carry this suggestion into effect ; and without farther preface he should now read it. The substance of it was that in addition to the Journal kept at present Digest of the whole should be kept in a tabular form but especially of the date of admission age sex and place of residence of the patients ; date of commencement crisis termination and assigned causes of their diseases ; with a diary of the temperatures and moisture of the atmosphere state of winds prices of staple provisions &c. ; with an annual medical report taking notice of the increase or decrease of population and of the employment diet and habits of the labouring classes as far as practicable. Some of the members he observed seemed to be amused with this enumeration ; but the medical gentlemen would be aware of what he pointed at. With their peculiar and proper duties he had no wish to interfere. They knew them well and discharged them faithfully and honourably. In their practise they attended to every thing that was necessary ; but their knowledge often died with him ; and his object was to preserve the results of their skill and experience.The Lord President said he hoped the gentlemen who had made this motion would see on reflection from the labour and time requisite to carry it into effect how very impracticable it would be in an hospital like that of the Royal Infirmary where the Managers had no compulsory authority over the medical gentlemen whose time was so occupied with their own private avocations.The Proposer of the motion said that instead answering what had fallen from the Right Honourable Judge in his own language he would beg leave to read another passage from Dr Duncan's voluble publication and which he hoped would obviate some of the difficulties adverted to. The trouble (says Dr Duncan) of keeping such tabular records is not so great as might be supposed. It requires only system and regularity; and when we see how easily it is done in the military hospital we cannot help regretting that it is not also in- troduced general into civil hospitals. If the practitioner himself has not time to fill up the columns of the prescribed table it would be very little additional trouble to his clerk ; or if the time of that assistant would not easily permit him the duty would be very gladly taken by another of the Hospital pupils.Dr Hope in a neat and eloquent speech opposed the motion. The Managers he said were willing to give due consideration to every proposal from whatever quarter it might come. The present however he considered as impractiable. To prepare tabular records of the nature suggested required great experience much comprehension and many talents. It was a task which every one was not qualified to discharge in a mnner could be beneficial to the public and one which gentlemen who lived by their profession could not be expected to undertake. The case was different in military hospitals where the medical getlmen could devote the whole of their time to their hospital duties. But it should be know that the materials for making up such tables are all recorded in the infirmary Journals ; and that these Journals are open to all the medical attendants; so that whoever finds that he has time and talents for the performance of such tasks has the fullest opportunity for undertaking and completing them. Accordingly we had had the very able reports of Dr Duncan and the useful work of Dr Welsh. The Institution has now the benefit of Dr Duncan's services ; and he considered it better to leave the completion of such works and reports to the zeal and talents of individuals.The Mover then stated that he was perfectly aware of Dr. Welsh's judicious publication as well as Dr Duncan's and he certainly would never have introduced such a measure had it not been suggested and recommended by a much abler mind than his own. He had not undertaken the task from any idea that he was able to do it justice or that he could do it better or even so well as many other members of the Court ; but from the conviction that if he had not introduced the subject it would be introduced at all. He had no wish however to give unnecessary trouble and should therefore for the present beg leave to withdraw his motion.Form of Process in the Justiciary Court.Our readers will learn with pleasure that the Lord Advocate with a laudable anxiety for the honour of our criminal jurisprudence has announced officially that the Clerk of Court strikes the Jury by taking 45 after 45 until they served in rotation. They consist of a list of Jurymen furnished by the High Constables for Edinburgh and those regularly required from the counties of Linlithgow and Haddington which names were then put upon a roll which was put into the bands of the Clerk of Court;– the Jurors thus struck being cited not by a Sheriff officer but by a Macer of the Justiciary ourt. We are not aware of any law which requires the Clerk of Court to take the Jurors by rotation ; but it reflects great credit on his judgement that he resorts to this unequivocal mode of displaying his impartiality. This is a virtue which the law requires in all its officers ; and it is fortunate when such rules are devised and adhered to as make the virtue incontrovertibly visible. At such an advanced stage of society honour and public opinion will secure impartial justice ; but still when the possibility of some retrograde movement is adverted to it would be a wise measure to convert what all functionaries do at present from principle into specific rules for directing the conduct of their successors. The Lord Advocate it has been reported is about to introduce into Parliament a Bill or Bills respecting the Judicatories of Scotland ; and his Lordship it is obvious might obtain a well-merited popularity by throwing in some clauses to fix the qualifications of a Juror in the different counties of Scotland and to regulate the times and the manner in which lists of Jurors are to be made up reduced into a penl of 45 and then to a jury of 15. Ther is if we mistake not a cerain discretion on more than one of these points left with functionaries who we doubt not would most readily part with it. To them it would be a relief ; and though the arraigned might sometimes have less impartial juries than at present yet if the ballot were introduced here as it has recently been in civil cases the impartiality would be more coguisable and placed beyond the reach of doubt and misrepresentation. It would be no disgrace to Scotland to borrow in this respect from her sister kingdom but an honour which France seems willing to do herself at present and which we very lately did ourselves in modelling our Jury Court.Mr Bywater has construced a small model of a ship in such a manner as to exhibity by actual experiment the principal magnetic phenomena mentioned by Captain Flinders in his voyage to New Holland. From a minute attention to the subject Mr B. has devised a plan which in all probability will remedy by very simple means the defect arising from the local attraction pointed out by Captain Flinders and thus be of real advantage to the science of navigation. A drawing of this plan (as it will be important to ships of war) has been sent to the Admiralty.,
ID162,Glasgow Herald,Glasgow,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,04,24,inform,Upper CanadaExtract from A Visit to the Province of Upper Canada in 1819 By James Strachan.[?] the Stream of Emigration now chiefly to the United States and not to Canada.The greater number are decieved; they know no[?] of this country. Many leave Great Britain from [?] discontents; and such the province is better. [?]. Lately the notes of Mr. Birkbeck have ex[?] much consideration; and all his assertions have [?] believed without investigation. Though I [?] [?] a bad man (I know him only from his [?] yet he is much to be pitied for his choice is [?]; and by this time he begins to feel it. [?] Birkbeck accustomed to all the comforts and [?] much of the elegance of life plunges [?[ family into a forest where they have fre[?] to sleep under the canopy of heaven with a [?]. He is forced to take the axe in his hand [?] in felling the pines of which he is to make [?] which he builds at a great distance [?] neighbour–opening to a wet plain in [?] and an impenetrable forest in the rear. This [?] covered with bark–it has no floor but [?] as the surrounding country is flat there [?] and no boards to be had. Mr Birk[?] date not leave home for any distance with[?] guide; and his children cannot go twenty [?] from the house without being lost. He gets [?] pressing of his wants supplied at an enormous[?] expense. And now that he is on his land. [?] shall he do; it is covered with trees or it is [?] unhealthy; and if he hire people to work [?] of the farm will never pay them: but [?] bae servants and he is obliged to sit down [?] them and to become their companion. Mr. Birkbeck[?] who was accustomed to go from one field to another admiring his crops and his cattle and thing to do but to give the servants their orders the day and saw all his works proceeding as ra[?] as he wished now finds himself an insulated [?] surrounded by a few miserable fiels taken [?] the bog and full of musquetoes; his children [?] sick from this unhealthy situation; and in [?] severe disease beyond the reach of medical assistance. It is possible to believe that under such circumstances he does not regret the country he has [?]. And let me not be told that the prospect of [?]] his children a rich inheritance will turn the [?] into sweet–he is not that sort of man; nor do [?] any law of nature which urges a parent to [?] his own happiness in order to confer a doubt[?] upon his children. We allow that after a [?] he will be surrounded with neighbours; [?] their society is not very agreeable; it is indeed [?] as Mr Birkbeck himself admits. After [?] his connexions his country all his early [?] and pleasing recollections his ease and [?] what does he gain? Some landed property [?] he dies in improving in an unhealthy situation[?]. He may not be able to leave a farm to each of his children[?]; but of what use will they be if not cultivated[?]? And he will discover in the bitterness of [?] that this legacy is not equal to the placing [?] upon a farm though taken at a rack-rent. [?] different the situation of a loyal farer pos[?] of Mr. Birkbeck's substance if he should [?] this province[?]![?] He need not go ten miles from [?] settlement even if he went at once up[?] lands granted him by the crown. But if he [?] an improved farm his privations will be [?] compared to those which he must suffer in [?] to the back settlements of the United States as [?] still more fully appear.It should not however be forgotten that with [?] possible advantage of soil neighbourhood [?] climate emigration to America a country so [?] from Great Britain is a matter of deep and [?] consideration. The persons emigrating [?] civil in their property break up all commerce [?] and connexions in the country they are leav[?] and if they find their expectations disappoint[?] the country of their choice they are ashamed perhaps unable to return. Emigrants often fail [?] they have never examined their subjects pro[?] and find on trial that they do not possess qualities to insure success.–The habits knowledge and accomodation of manners [?] this new life requires are not perhaps na[?] to them–they have not the strength the [?] and perseverance which their new situation [?]. The emigrant is not prepared to meet the difficulties[?] which the climate new manner of living [?] or vermin may bring upon him; and which [?] of all his exertions may frequently destroy [?]. It is therefore the greatest cruelty to [?] the matter partially; and while the advantages [?] from the old to the new world are drawn [?] most fascinating colours to conceal the priva[?] and sacrifices which must be made and the [?] of failure which may be opposed to of success.We[?] shall have occasion to prove by the most un[?] the evidence that Upper Canada offers to emi[?] advantages vastly superior to any portion of [?] United States; but we would still admonish [?] thinking to leave their native country [?] the matter with severe minuteness not [?] away by golden dreams; and to prepare [?] should they decide upon going to meet [?] [?] from sickness from different [?] [?] labour and privations of various [?] Yet though no step can be so important as [?] leaving one native's country for ever it is to [?] that such a step is taken without due con[?]. The fancy is deluded with goldren dreams; farmers[?] in America are owners of the soil on [?] they live; they have no rents to pay no tax[?] their doors; possessing a noble indepen[?] they acknowledge no superiority but genius [?]. These are high sounding things but [?] than solid. Before a man allows him[?] deluded by them he should remember [?] no great hardship to pay rent if his pro[?] three times the price in England that it [?] America; that the difficulty of bringing [?] to maret a tax not perhaps inferior [?] he had paid at home and attended with difficulties[?] which he never experience; that [?] of intercourse by good roads and canals [?] time and the tear and wear of his car[?] amd cattle are worth a very considerable sum; in removing from his native country he is [?] the improvements of a thousand years to en[?] all the rudeness of nature; that he is risking [?] happiness and that of his children by a [?] [?] be retraced and plunging into [?] whose manner and habits are differ ent from his own; and that he will have every thing to learn in the midst of strangers.When a man has after mature deliberation determined to emigrate which various considerations may in particular cases render prudent his next question is Where shall he go–to the United States or to Canada? We shall suppose the persons emigrating to be friends to the British constitution; for if they are not there is no question; because levellers and democrats will find themselves in a bad situation in coming to Canada as they will find no kindred spirits there. But though we can willingly spare such as these to lose good subjects is a serious evil to the empire; and to lose them through ignorance and the want of that information which it is in our power to give is a folly as well as all evil.I am persuaded that all emigrants of the description we mention would rather prefer to remain undue their own government than to live under and swear allegiances to another provided no greater sacrifices were required in going to the one than to the other. I am indeed quite certain that many would consent willing to a considerable sacrifice for this advantage so agreeable to their feelings and habits; but we shall shew that no such sacrifice is required and that their interest as well as inclination when duly considerd will lead them to Upper Canada.In going to the United States we have Mr. Birkbeck's authority that 'no good settlement can be made cast of the Alleghany mountains or in the Atlantic States.' The lands are now so dear as to be in general far beyond the reach of common emigrants who have seldom much left after landing in America.Suppose two families to land in America–one at New York or Philadelphia on the way to Mr Birkbeck's settlement; and one at Quebec on the way to Upper Canada.Miles From Philadelphia to Pittsburgh 320 From Pittsburgh down the Ohio to Shawanoe Town 1200 From Shawanoe Town to Mr Birkbeck's settlement 50 1570Expense of a family travelling this route supposing the family to consist of ten persons and to carry with them two tons of goods:Dollars. From Philadelphia to Pittsburgh at eight dollars per cwt. 320 The expense of the family who accompany the waggon at one dollar each per day 100 From Pittsburgh to Shawanoe by water down the Ohio 1200 miles. An ark or large scow must be purchased hands hired to go down and they must be paid to return as much from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh 420 From Shawanoe Town to Mr Birkbeck for baggage and person 100 940 To purchase two hundred acres of land at two dollars per acre 400 Total expenses 1310The same family landed at Quebec Pays to Montreal 200 miles two dollars each 20 For the good[?] 12 From Montreal to Kingston 220 miles up the river St. Lawrence goods and persons for the batteau can take all 100 If the family proceed to York which is seldom necessary as Kingston 150 miles within the province and lands in its neighbourhoods to be sold or granted there will be an additiona expense of 80 To such a family possessed of property government might grant 200 acres on paying fees about 70 Or it may be purchased at two dollars per acres 130 Total expenses 412From this calculation it is seen that the settler with his large family by coming to Upper Canada instead of joining Mr. Birkbeck even if he purchases his lands at the same price saves 928 dollars which will enable him to clear a large portion of his farm stock it and build a comfortable house; and if he be granted the land instead of purchasing it there is a further saving of 130 dollars.Let us now see what the product at Mr. Birkbeck's settlement in the Illinois and in Upper Canada will command in the market; for notwithstanding the greatness of the first saving in coming to Upper Canada if the markets be inferior it might soon be balanced.Illinois Upper Canada Wheat per bushel t0 3 9 Wheat per bushel t0 5 0 India corn 0 1 1 India corn 0 4 0 Oats 0 1 6 Oats 0 2 6 Hay per ton 1 19 0 Hay per ton 2 10 0 Butter per lb. 0 0 7 Butter per lb. 0 1 3 Cheese 0 1 3 Cheese 0 0 10 Fowls per couple 0 1 7 Fowls per couple 0 1 6 t2 8 9 t3 5 1 N.B. These prices taken from Mr. Birkbeck's book are t50 per cent above the truth.From this table it is manifest that the produce raised in Upper Canada sells at an advance of upwards of 30 per cent on what the same can be sold in the Illinois territory supposing Mr. Birkbeck's prices correct which they are not being much too high. The vast advantage therefore in coming to Upper Canada must appear manifest.It may by some be said that the families are too numerous as there are few that consist of ten persons; but the results will be proportionally the same whatever the number be; and if we suppose them to consist of persons in comfortable circumstances in their own country they will commonly bring servants with them by which the average will be still greater. But this is of no moment; the difference of expense in travelling 500 miles or 1570 is suf ficiently clear.We must add to the disadvantage of Mr. Birkbeck's farmer the dearness of all those articles which he has to purchase; for his distance from the seacoast and market operates in two ways to his disadvantage. 'His produce is low and the goods from are dear: the shopkeeper who is at a great distance from the place where the articles he deals in are procured will add to the price when he disposes of the the additional expense of bringing and the time lost in procuring them. To him who is obliged to take a journey of 1600 miles to procure his articles of merchandize the cost and trouble must be very great; and all this he makes the consumer pay. The journey which Mr. Birkbeck's merchant is obliged to take is a very serious one compared to that of the merchant of York or Niagara. The latter in consequence of this situation can trade with a smaller capital than the former; because he can at any time procure a fresh supply in a few days while the former can lay in a stock of goods only once a-year. Now all these difficulties are to be paid for by the farmers and mechanics who consume the articles imported; the difference to them in the course of a twelvemonth by receiving less for the articles they sell and paying more for those they purchase will be found to be very great.'It is not merely the quantum he shall raise but the sun he shall get for it which constitutes the farmer's advantage. It is not simply to get enough to eat and drink that is to bound the desires of the farmer; it is to procure the means of converting his log-cabin into a handsome and convenient house– to erect a large barn for his grain and suitable buildings for his cattle–to educate his children–and as he grows old to enjoy the satisfaction of finding that his industry has supplied the comforts of life and enabled him to satisfy the wants of society– wants to which we are indebted for amelioration of mankind.'In the selection of a place to residence in a new country it is very important to take into view the ultimate market for the farmer's produce. While the country is settling there will be no difficulty; for the increasing population will demand all the supplies that can be raised. But the prudent settler will look beyond that period and consider what he shall do when every one raises more grain than he will be able to consume. In that case vicinity to market and facility of transportation are all important. Now the produce of Upper Canada can be sent to Montreal one of the best markets in America in five or six days at a trifling expense which is yearly diminishing as the waters are improved. Very different is the case with the farmer in the western division of the United States: the immense distance which grain has to be sent occasions the expense to be so great as frequently to equal and sometimes exceed the price offered when it reaches the market. The more that this statement is examined the more correct it will be found and the superior advantages of Canada will appear in a stronger light; but having been a landholder it is time to instruct the emigrant how he is to make his living out of it.,
ID163,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,04,24,inform,EmigrationAmong the emigrants proceeding to seek another country on the shores of Southern Africa four vessels containing above 600 souls have sailed from Liverpool bound to the Cape of Good Hope; three of them under the command and direction of a naval officer and one under private superintendance. The public agent was instructed to provide every accomodation which could minister to the health or comfort of the families who were to embarkThursday afternoon the brig Alexander sailed from Greenock with emigrants for Prince Edward's island. This vessel had 85 passengers on board of which 17 were children.On Friday the ship Alexander Young sailed from Greenock for Quebec with 96 passengers.Extract of a letter dated in Perth Upper Canada 18th January – Liberty and Equality are the predominant principles here. A common labourer from Scotland is entitled to a lot of land. Whenever he finds he can subsist upon his farm he becomes as high as the best in the township. Every settler though ever so poor has a vote for the member for the township and has full liberty to speak at every meeting. – It is nothing uncommon to see a poor Glasgow weaver who came among us with scarce a stitch to cover his nakedness strutting between the stumps of his trees as pompous as an Ediburgh Magistrate.,
ID164,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,05,20,persuade,Necessity of Legislative Measures for Relieving the Distress of the Labouring Classes.Salus populi suprema lex.There wasa time when it was held pure factiousness to doubt whether the prosperity we enjoyed during the first ten or twelve years of the late war was perfectly sound and natural and whether it would not ultimately entail upon us a corresponding share of future calamity. But the most gloomy anticipations of those who were most inclined to view the picture on the dark side have certainly come infinitely short of the full measure of distress and misery which have at length fallen upon the country. It would be unjust to charge the Government with any more of these evils than might have been foreseen ; but now that they force themselves on the attention on all sides it is perfectly fair to hold the Government accountable for all that it can remove or prevent and yet suffers to exist. This is the first time we believe in modern history when the evil of an excess of population has come so distinctly under the notice of a Government as to call for a legislative remedy. The case is therefore new and the course to be pursued is the less obvious ; but the war was a season of bold experiments in which we surmounted many difficulties once deemed insuperable : and if timidity tie up our hands now when humanity calls upon us to move the world may well say that the boasted energy of the Government has been entirely reserved for the supply of its own wants out of the pockets of the people but that when a period of public calamity requiress exertions of a more painful kind it is startled by the smallest difficulty and will not even make such a slight effort as might evince its sympathy with the sufferers.During the late war the industry of the country was stimulated into a state of unprecedented activity by the monopoly we obtained of the commerce of the world–by thirty or forty millions of the capital of the country being annually melted down and consumed–and by the continual rise of prices produced by the depreciation of the currency. The great demand for labour arising out of this state of things with the consequent increase of wages caused a rapid augmentation in the numbers of the people. In the ten years ending 1811 the rate of increase in Britain was such as would have doubled the population in fifty-two years; and in the great manufacturing districts it probably equalled what takes place in a new colony. When the peace came and was followed by the destruction of our commercial monopoly the cessation of the annual loans and the diminuition of the paper issues the sources of our fictitious prosperity were dried up at once : a vast reduction took place in the demand for labour ; profits and wages fell with prices ; while the pressure of the taxes were doubled and one third added to their real amount by the rise in the value of money. The laws however which regulate the multiplication of human beings cannot instantly bend to circumstances : a long period necessarily elapses before the population accommodates itself to the diminished demand for labour and during this period the labouring classes must suffe extreme misery. In this state we are at present and time from which we hoped relief has only aggravated the evil. There are but three remedies upon which any dependence can be placed – a reduction of taxation – a change in our commercial system – and emigration. We have little hopes as to the first since this would require a sacrifice on the part of the Government of its own interest real or supposed which we see no disposition to make. A relaxation in our restrictive commercial system has not the same obstacles to encounter and we have repeated shewn that it would be highly beneficial. The reluctance of Ministers to attempt a change that may prejudice the interest of some particular classes might be considered as a prudent caution were it not observed that when instead of relieving the distress of the people the object is to suppy the necessities of the Treasury none of this caution appears but the complaints of the sufferers are disregarded as vulgar clamour. But the crisis is now such that tenderness to the interests of a few individuals may be cruelty to the public at large. Though we shall preach free trade to other nations rather with a bad grace when we can no longer hold our monopoly it is so far well that our misfortunes are at last likely to open our eyes to truths whch were familiar to philosophers half a century ago. In our present circumstances we may perhaps almost be thankful that a systematic error which has impeded our career has kept this one resource open to us.Emigration suggests itself so naturally as a remedy for a redundant population that we are rather surprised there should be much reluctance to have recourse to it. We need not be afraid that the practise will continue longer than the necessity which produces it. The vis intertiae of people in general says Malthus and their attachment to their homes are qualities so strong and general that we may rest assured they will not emigrate unless from political discontents or extreme poverty they are in such a state as will make it as much for the advantages of their country as of themselves that they should go out of it. We by no means underrate the difficulties that attend emigration upon a large scale but these are partly occasioned by the absurd practise of directing it exclusively to our own colonies. We have vast multitudes whom we can neither feed nor employ ; and surely the first and most pressing object is to send them where they will find the means of subsistence. There are many parts of the world besides our own colonies open to receive them. And whether they go to the United States Brazil Buenos Ayres or to Canada New Holland or the Cape of Good Hope the advantage to this country will be nearly the same. Among so many countries of such extent it would not be very difficult to dispose of half a million of persons (young and old) within the course perhaps of two years. But upon whatever scale emigration is conducted it must be gradual; and this renders it the more important to fix upon a plan early. Ministers have lately announced that Canada cannot receive more emigrants at present without inconvenience. But had the intention of sending great numbers to that colony been made public two years ago corn would have been raised for them and men of some capital assured of finding abundance of labourers would have gone out and settled and provided employment for those who have not the means to establish themselves as farmers. The alarm we feel of seeing manufactures raised up in other countries by the skill of our expatriated artisans is very ill founded. Many other advantges must be combined with the possession of mechanical skill to make manufactures flourish ; and when the former are found able workmen will not be long wanting. Our capital our improved means of internal communication our coal fields our laws for the protection of industry and property the free enlightened and active spirit of our people with the powers of combination resulting from the union of so many advantages within so small a space are better securities for our superiority in manufactures than attempts which must be nugatory to retain a monopoly of operative skill and talent. But the opinion which exists in foreign countries as to the superiority of our people in every branch of industry will have this good effect that it will secure out emigrants a favourable reception. Though the emigration to afford any sensible relief to the whole country would require to be upon an extensive scale it is yet obvious that even upon the smallest scale it is beneficial. If six labourers are withdrawn from a small village or fifty from a country town the situation of either will be improved. The plan hitherto acted on by Government of givingassistance to those only who could raise ten on fifteen pounds is chiefly objectionable because it must restrict the emigration within very narrow limits. If by sending away men who are still able to subsist by their labour others now living on charity get employment we are in effect relieved of so many paupers. But the former are less disposed to leave the country ; and with regard to those who are or must soon become paupers it will certainly be found more economical to pay ten or fiften pounds each to send them abroad than to maintain them permanently home. It is in vain however to look to private charity for the funds necessary for such an undertaking. These must be raised by the country at large ; and whether a tax be imposed for the special purpose or money destined for other objects be applied to this the country we have no doubt is ready to make the sacrifice. Suppose that even so great a sum as five millions were required this is but the half of what England alone pays every year for poor rates ; and what is such a sum if it were to afford certain relief on an emergency lke the present? If the French and Dutch should again disagree about the navigation of the Scheldt or if we should quarrel with the French or Americans about the traffic in a few hundred wild cat-skins on the other side of the globe how easily would a sum ten times as large be found? Nothing more is requisite than to take on half of the sum for two years which Mr Vansittart allots for paying off the national debt. We not only conceive that it would be wise and creditable to divert a part or the whole of the actual Sinking Fund to this purpose ; but we go so far as to think that it is little less than disgraceful to pay off any debt at all at this crisis with funds wrung from the earnings of a starving population. Whatever is done it is of vast importance to understand that the most pressing evil though not absolutely permanent in its nature cannot be expected to subside of itself for many years. We have not only an excess of population to dispose of but we have to check the principle of increase which is rapidly aggravating the evil. In the five years ending 1810 the population of England added one-seventieth part to its numbers annually ; and if we suppose the ratio to have been the same for the whole empire each year must have had 250000 individuals more to provide for than the preceding. Till the whole of this vast annual inrease is got rid of the present excess of numbers will not diminish but augment. And how is it to be got rid of? Either the annual births must diminish more than one-third or famine and disease must destroy a quarter of a million of human beings annually beyond the usual rate of mortality or these two causes must operate together. Notwithstanding therefore the misery of the labouring classes at this moment we doubt whether the population is not still on the increase and whether still more afflicting scenes are not awaiting us. Indeed unless measures are taken to do away the factitious stimulus which the English poor laws give to the increase of population the most abundant e migration will prove but a feeble palliative. These are rather discouraging circumstances ; but the evil must be dealt with in some way or it will ultimately overwhelm us. It has now become rather a question of humanitiy than of policy. One or two millions of human beings have been suddenly deprived of their means of subsistence by events over which they had no control. With such a mass of individuals goaded to desperation by want–a deficient crop–a sudden revulsion in trade– a more general exclusion of our manufactures by the Americans–any of those numerous casualties in short to which every nation is exposed would place us in a situation frightful to contemplate. Plots and insurrections will keep up a continual alarm. Neither persons nor property will be safe and capital will gradually leave the country. If theory were silent experience must now convince us that time alone will produce no material amelioration in our circumstances ; and the relief which is may ultimately bring will be obtained only through the destruction of vast multitudes by famine and disease. In the fifth year of peace it is now time to look the evil in the face and either to make some great sacrifices for its removal or to brace our minds to bear the dreadful alternative. It is in vain to disguise the matter to our own consciences. Those who propose to leave things to what they call the course of nature are in substance recommending that thousands of their fellow-creatures should be suffered to rot away from the effect of absolute want. That such a thing should take place in the,
ID165,Glasgow Advertiser,Glasgow,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,05,22,inform,Extract of a letter received from Calcutta dated 22d November 1819:--An afflicting circumstance has recently taken place. The Captain of the Bengal a Liverpool trader very lately gave a ball on board his ship which was about to sail for England. The party was very small and more than half were taken ill with a violent fever immediately afterwards. I buried the Captain and the Surgeon a few days after it; not less than ten of the part died within as many days all younger persons. Only one officer survives of those who left England in the ship and he is just recovering in the Hospital. All sorts of conjectures were made but it turns out that there were 17000 undressed buffalo horns in the hold in a complete state of putrefaction. This vessel has sailed for England in this state without a Surgeon. I question whether it will ever arrive; it ought not to be admitted among other shipping if it does;–the opening of the hold will be death to him who does it and perhaps to many more.--In consequence of this disastrous information Ministers have issued an order for the vessel on her arrival at Liverpool or any other part to undergo quarantine.–London Paper.All apprehension on the above subject is completely done away by the following letter from Liverpool May 14:–I noticed a paragraph in the London papers respecting the Bengal of this port at Calcutta stating that a number of deaths had taken place supposed in consequence of the Infectious vapours arising from some buffalo horns.–The Bengal arrived here April 5 and has been discharged without any of those dreadful consequences which the medical gentlemen of Calcutta prognosticated.–I should rather suppose that the fatal consequences which ensued to those individuals who attended the ball given on board this vessel at Calcutta would be none justly attributed to the exposure to night air.,disease;shipping news
ID166,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,06,17,inform,CanadaThe following is an extract of a private letter datedHalifax May 22 At two o'clock this day the Earl of Dalhousie Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief of British North America attended by the Admiral his Majesty's Council the staff naval and military officers and the principal people of the place attended to lay the first stone of a new college to be erected at the north end of the grand parade. The whole of the freemasons of Halifax went in grand procession. They formed in lodges at their hall and preceded by a military band and followed by another they marched to the places prepared for them on the building.His Lordship came on the scaffolding at two o'clock the grenadiers of the 62d regiment being his guard of honour. Detachments from each regiment kept the ground.After a prayer by the Rev. Mr Twining Grand Chaplain Lord Dalhousie addressed the assembly in a speech of which I have not time to give an outline ; but in it his Lordship mentioned that the building was intendeed as a college upon the plan of that of Edinburgh where all students who professed the Christian religion were eligible for admittance. Strangers residing here for a short time might also enjoy the benefit of the institution and gentlemen in the army the navy and the military establishments. His Lordship concluded a most eloquent and animated address with his fervent wishes for the welfare and prosperity of the undertaking.A bottle with coins and a tin case with parchments &c. were then severally deposited in the recess made for them and the stone was lowered into its place with all the requisite and due forms under a royal salute from fort Charlotte ; after which the Rev. the Grand Chaplain closed the proceedings with a prayer and the whole assembled multitude gave nine cheers.– The military and masonic processions then returned in the same order in which they came.The day was beautiful and a greater assemblage of people was never witnessed in Halifax.The Countess of Dalhousie and her two sons Mrs Admiral Griffith and the Misses Wilson and most of the fashionable ladies here witnessed the ceremony from a convenient scaffolding prepared for them.Lord Dalhousie purposes to leave Halifax for Quebec in his Majesty's ship Newcastle on the 1st of June without waiting for Sir James Kempt.Court of Chancery–June 10.Will of the Late Duke of Queensberry Mr Head stated that he had to present a petition from the annuitants and legates of the late Duke of Queensberry praying that a fourth more of their claims might be paid there now being sufficient funds in the hands of the Accountant-General for that purposes. The Learned Counsel said that there was no less a sum than L.1400000 accumulated and vested in the name of this officer in Bank stock for the benefit of the claimants and he understood it was not intended to oppose the application although the executors did not say they would give their consent to it. Some consultation had been had on the subject out of doors ; he therefore prayed that the prayer of the petition should be granted.The Attorney-General said he had not received any instructions nor had he been consulted.The several King's counsel in Court spoke in behalf of their respective clients.Mr Wingfield appeared for the Earl of Yarmouth and said his Lordship was anxious that the business should be put in a train of settlement.The Lord Chancellor said there was not a man existing that had a heart in him but must wish the legacies and annuities to be paid ; but said his Lordship the Marquis of Queensberry has commenced an action for the recovery of L.150000 against the executor and he certainly had a right so to do it ; it was therefore proper that the Court should see that no harm arose to the executors before the funds were allowed to go out of Court. With respect to their not opposing the petition that was very different to consenting to it ; it merely said to the Court Mind you do right.Mr Heald said if his Lordship thought that one-fourth was too much they would take an eight or any part his Lordship pleased.The Lord Chancellor.–I will order it to stand first on the paper for Tuesday next and in the mean time I will look over the petition.,
ID167,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,07,01,inform,The New York Daily Advertiser says–The line of battle ship New York now finishing at our navy yard at the Wallabut is perhaps the most superior vessel ever built. Her tonnage is near 3000[?]: she measures 203 feet keel and is by 15 feet the largest man of war ever laid down in this country. She will no doubt be rated a 74 but will be equal to a 100 gun-ship and will carry 120 guns.,
ID168,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,07,12,inform,IndiaWe have great pleasure in publishing the following interesting letter from India: –Madras Feb. 4 1820. I have thank God no very brilliant events to communicate to you but if the happiness of man is the legitimate object of all Government it is good to learn that British India is at peace and that a temperate and radical reform is gradually going on under the Marquess of Hastings' administration. The establishment of schools and a free press are the moving principles by which this great advancement in the state of society will be accomplished unless checked by impious powers.On the subject of these schools it is not necessary here to dilate. Suffice it to observe that it is in the power of any Government abitrary or free to educate the great bulk of its subjects and thereby to advance them in knowledge civilization and happiness in the shortest possible period.The establishment of a free press in Asia is in my estimation as useful and magnanimous an art as ever adorned the biography of any Statesman. What say its detractors is setting loose a parcel of printer's devils so great an act? No but setting loose all the intelligence of the age to work upon the public mind and conduct is an act of unrivalled benevolence. Be it asserted that a free press is only applicable to an advanced state of society I deny the position ; it is not founded in reason or experience. I contend on the other hand that where least knowledge and msot evil exist there is the greatest scope for improvement ; and I offer Scotland as a proof of the efficacy[?] of education and a free press.The Marquess of Hastings Governor General of India has in the newspapers of Madras and Calcutta been accused of having sent two persons of the name of Hastings to unhealthy climates the one to the East and the other to the West Indies where they died ; and for the base purpose of securing to his family the title of Huntingdon. This you must be aware was touching his sensitive honour to the quick ; and it would seem as if some one inimical to a free press had introduced the paragraph to irritate him. But this virtuous man who would not tread on an insect allowed this shameful slander to pass unnoticed. It stood refuted in every bosom and his manly forbearance tended but to give further proofs of his attachment to our infant liberty. Attacks have likewise been made on Sir E. East our Chief Justice. He complained they say of these alleged libels to the Chief Magistrate who desired him to have recourse to the law Conceive not however that I am the advocate for a licentious press. My maxim is that a great power when mischievously applied must be hurtful and when well applied beneficial in proportion to its strength.You will rejoice to learn that Mr Elphinstone Governor of Bombay has done away with the Censorship of the Press. This wise Statesman being a friend to freedom and having experienced the benefits which had arisen in Bengal from the measure (for scarce a day no passes that some abuse is not brought to light by the press) adopted it the moment he came into power and thus proved himself a public benefactor.To conclude it is my firm conviction that the diffusion of knowledge through the medium of education and a free press will more than any other measure accelerate the improvement and heighten the prosperity not only of British India but of the surrounding world.,
ID169,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,07,12,inform,Maritime IntelligenceThe Jane Drummond of Liverpool arrived at Savannah was plundered on the 22d April in [?] 34 10. long. 41. 21. of all her specie 20500 dollars stores provisions &c. by a Spanish ship of 300 tons armed with 14 guns and two stern chasers and full of men. She was supposed to have been out two or three months from Cuba. She had a yellow waist woman head painted black and was coppered to light water mark.Intelligence from Marseilles dated 22d inst. states –' An English Captain who left Oran on the 13th inst. and arrived yesterday in this port has declared that a squadron of five armed ships which he was assured were destined for the North Seas sailed from Algiers at the beginning of the present month.A vessel the Prompt sailed on Tuesday evening from Greenock for Quebec having on board emigrants from Anderston Rutherglen Lesmahogow and Lanark to the number of about 350 persons. The Rev. Mr Easton of Montreal goes out with the Prompt.The Hibernia M'Eachren from the Clyde to Buenos Ayres was totally lost the 15th April near Maldonado. Crew saved.Discovery of a New Island off Cape HornA new island has been discovered off Cape Horn in inst. 61 deg. long. 55 deg. by the ship William on a voyage from Monte Video for Valparaiso. The same having been dispatched by Captain Sheriff of the Andromache frigate to survey the coast had explored it for 200 miles. The captain went ashore found it covered with snow and uninhabited. Abundance of seals an whales were found in its neighbourhood. He has named the island New Shetland.Accounts from Constantinople dated May 26 annouce that the armaments against Ali Pacha are upon the most formidable scale and are actively pursued.– The latter has obtained hostages of his principal officers as pledges of their fidelity. On the 14th two new hips of the line were launched in the presence of the Sultan and his Grand Dignitaries at the hour fixed by the chief astrologers. The navigation between Bagdad[?] and Bassurah has been free since the defeat of the Arabs by the English. The latter it is stated have facilitated the intercourse between those two places by the establishment of parket-boats.,
ID170,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,07,12,inform,Colonial IntelligenceProposed New Monarchy in South AmericaAccounts have beenreceived from Buenos Ayres by the Blossom sloop of War of a curious nature.– They relate to a project said to have been in agitation for placing a Prince of the House of Bourbon at the head of an independent Sovereignty on the River Plate.– The circumstance has been brought to light by the late changes in the Government of Buenos Ayres. From the documents now published and received by the Blossom it appears that in June 1819. Gomez the Envoy from Buenos Ayres at Paris was invited to a conference by M. De Cazes then French Minister for Foreign Affairs the object of which was to communicate a project of the French Cabinet for the colonsolidation of the Independent Government of South America.This project the French Minister observed would meet with the decided approbation of the Continental Powers especially Russia and Austria. Great Britain might not like it but yet would not find any good pretence for resisting it ; and his Catholic Majesty would yield to the influence of all Europe with the better grace as his former dependencies would be only transferred to a branch of his own family. The King of France would furnish assistance of every king and employ every means even to the supply of troops for carrying the affair into execution.On the 26th of October last when the statement of his conference reached Buenos Ayres Rondeau then Director ad interim made a secret communication to the Congress and transmitted to them the letter of the Envoy together with the French memorial ; on the following day and on the 3d of November the matter was discussed in secret meetings and the result was an[?] opinion that the Constitution lately-sworn allowed no alteration to be made in the form of Government till after the meeting of the Chambers. That a branch of the Bourbon family so closely connected with the reigning Monarch of Spain was in itself an insuperable objection as also the consideration that the Prince proposed and supported by the Powers of the European Continent would naturally more incline towards the views of his protectors than towards those of South America which ought to avoid all connexion with European continental politics ; and that Great Britain was the power from which South America had most to fear and most to expect.It was at the same time suggested that the Envoys in Europe shoud put the communications from Paris into the hands of the British Minstry whose good opinion and protection South America is most anxious to conciliate.Our Cabinet has always treated the South Americans with the greatest reserve as if feating contamination by simple contact–a delicacy towards Spanish interests and feelings which appears in itself commendable but when measured by the standard of national benefit may not merit the same praise. As it is it would seem that the British interest is likely to gain the ascendacy in the river Plate rather through the disposition of the inhabitants than from any influence exerted by our Ministers.We shall only add that thought the negotiation was carried on by the Duke de Cazes the project did not originate with him and did not at first apply to the Prince de Lucca. It was intended as an opening for one more nearly allied to the reigning family in France.,
ID171,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,07,19,inform,Emigration.We extract the following statement from the Montreal Herald and an important one it is to those who are desirous of emigrating as well as to those who from patriotic motives would wish to turn the tide of emigration into a channel which while it relieve the mother country now may hereafter add to her strength and resources :Number of British subjects that emigrated to the United States who received recommendations for grants of land and removed to the province of Upper Canada from James Buchanan Esq. his Majesty's Consul at New York in the year 1819: –English { Farmers..... 180 Women..... 118 Children..... 157 Mechanics..... 117 Women..... 57 Children..... 92 } 1021 Scotch { Farmers..... 50 Women..... 11 Children..... 15 Mechanics..... 30 Women..... 9 Children..... 36 } 131 Irish { Farmers..... 184 Women..... 94 Children..... 319 Mechanics..... 75 Women..... 42 Children..... 98 } 810 Total.........1962We cannot give publicity to the above return without observing how eminently calculated such a document is to open the eyes of our too credulous yet industrious and loyal countrymen ; many of whom are still disposed to look to the United Statesm as the abode of independence and the source of affluence. Here we see nearly 2000 British subjects who in one season through the agency alone of one of our Consuls(withoutany pecuniary aid) have removed from the United States to Upper Canada. Their trieal and failure in the former as well as the trial and failure of the great numbers who have returned to this country are circumstances well calculated to direct the attention of those who have emigration in view at once to Upper Canada. We have made enquiry about these hitherto unknown but truly fertile regions ; and we are informed from a most authentic and satisfactory source that there there are unlocated lands fertile beyond the conception of those who have not seen them capable of receiving ten millions of inhabitants ; that the winters are not so cold nor the summers so hot as in the State of New York ; that these regions have proved eminently healthy to the vast numbers that have poured into them of late years ; and that the administration of the laws the state of education and religious instruction and above all the peace and quiet of the inhabitants have found there have exceed their most sanguine expectations.It may be desirable to state that grown persons can get by water from Quebec to York the capital of Upper Canada for about 28s ; children half price ; that to all persons properly recommended as to good conduct a grant of land is given according to their means of cultivation ; that this grant becomes their own for ever and they may dispose of it as they please.,
ID172,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1820,08,02,inform,Colony at the Cape of Good Hope(Extract of a Letter dated off Madeira) Aurora Transport Ship Feb 19.An opportunity having offered for transmitting a hasty account of the Aurora and Brilliant transports proceeding with settlers to the Cape of Good Hope I feel happy in availing myself of that circumstance with a view as well to gratify our friends in England as to add another confirmation of the liberality of Government in our important undertaking. First it will be necessary to state that the two ships sail in company and are every day within hail of each other ; the former commanded by Captain Pearson and the latter by Captain Bothwell who is accompanied by Lieutenant Pritchard as agent to both vessels.We sailed from Gravesend on. Our course down Channel was most favourable and the weather has hitherto been propitious. No death disease or serious accident has occurred in either ship and blooming health and vigour now rapidly succeed the langour produced by a sudden transition to a new element. Provisions consisting of flour currants suet[?] oatmeal peas butter cheese tea sugar biscuit salt pork and beef of excellent quality are liberally supplied together with a proper allowance of rum vinegar mustard and spices. The ships are fitted up in every respect comfortably and commodiously and the most perfect harmony prevails if we except bickerings amongst the old women about fractured teapots and mislaid culinary articles. The attention paid to the comfort of the passengers and more especially to that of the women and children by the Captains and the agent (Mr Pritchard) is highly creditable to the instructions received from Government.Although I do not sail in the same ship Captain Bothwell. I have had ample proofs of the kindness and humane liberality which he shews to the passengers in the Brilliant. Captain Pearson is an active intelligent officer who has been 23 years in the Transport Service under Government : he has sailed to almost every part of the world and Algoa Bay our place of destination is quite familiar to him.It may be egotism to speak of myself; but I trust I may be excused in boasting that of the crew and 240 passengers not one is seriously indisposed at present and wishing with heartfelt sincerity to my friends in England happiness peace and tranquility in as good health as I now enjoy long may they live long live the Constitution: and while on Fish River or Orange River we encounter the difficulties incident to new colonists may England and South Africa be ever united by the ties of mutual friendship–the one affording her parental arms and the other mindful of her filial duty. P. Campbell. Surgeon.,
ID173,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,01,17,inform,Colonial IntelligenceWe have received letters and papers from the Cape of Good Hope to the 22d October and they are satisfactory in all points of view but especially with reference to the new settlement at Algoa Bay. His Excellency the Governor Sir R. S. Donkin was taking some effectual measures to place the coinage of the colony upon a better footing and on the 13th of October he issued a Proclamation for destroying a very large quantity of base money. He has also taken measure to communicate to the new settlers from England the full benefit ofthe Courts of Justice esblished in that quarter of the world.We have received an account of the loss of the Abeona[?] transport bound to the Cape of Good Hope with settlers. The following is an extract of a letter from the Agent to Lloyd's dated Lisbon 20th Dec. The Condessa da Ponte which arrived on the 20th inst. from Marenham[?] has brought 49 persons who escaped from the Abeona transport bound to the Cape of Good Hope which took fire and was burnt on the 25th ult. in lat. 5 N. long–and 113 lives were lost. The Agent Lieut. Madge the Captain Surgeon 21 men 16 boys 4 women and 5 girls got into three boats and fortunately fell in with the Condessa da Ponte the morning after the fatal event.Demerara Gazettes to a late date have been received which give detailed accounts of the number and state of the slaves in that part of the West Indies. The report is given by James Robertson Esq. the new Slave Registrat of the United Colony. It is a triennial statement of the slave population and the Reporter makes some judicious comparative remarks. It appears that there has been a large decrease of the number by deaths but the Creoles are greatly increased as compared with the former year. Births have been in the proportion of one to forty-six. The Report defends the [?] of the West India Planters and observes that the state of the Black population serves[?] to evil for little or no [?] ; so great is the kindness the liberality and induglent care of propiertors. It adds that their own interests is a perpetual[?] evil[?] upon their humanity. In the colony there [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] slaves on the island [?] Africans[?] and Creoles and there are 38910 female slaves of the same donomination making a total of 76929. The slave population in 1817 amounted in the whole to 77867.– The number of births which have occurred since that period is 5317 and deaths 7140. The Report concludes with some gratifying observations upon the flourishing state of the colony.,
ID174,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,01,26,inform,Emigration.–OfficialEnquiries and applications having been addressed to the Colonial Department respecting emigration to His Majesty's foreign possessions it has been deemed convenient with a view to the information and guidance of individuals interest in this subject to state that 1stly Persons are not provided with passages at the public expense to any of his Majesty's settlements. 2dly Persons proceeding at their own expense to North America and to the Cape of Good Hope and desirous of settling there require no previous authority from his Majesty's Secretary of State to enable them to obtain grants of land the Governor of those settlements being fully empowered to assign lands to applicants proportioned to the means which they actually possess for bringing them into a state of cultivation. The extent of these grants must depend upon their quality position and other circumstances which can only be ascertained in the Colony. 3dly Persons desirous of settling in New South Wales or Van Diemen's Land must be provided with the sanction of his Majesty's Secretary of State ; and this can only be obtained upon written application accompanied by references to two or more respectable persons as to the character of the applicant and the extent of his capital which must amount to Five Hundred Pounds at the least.Colonial Department London. January 1822.,
ID175,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,01,31,inform,Colonial IntelligenceSuccess of the Cutch Expedition against the Sindeans –The following extract of a letter from Bombay bringing this intelligence we copy from Carrick's Post which appears to have exclusive means of obtaining information on India affairs:–Bombay Sept. 12 1820. While I was seeing the last of your goods on board last night a vessel arrived in the harbour having on board an officer from Cutch who was the hearer of the official intelligence of the complete success of Sir Charles Culville's expedition against the Sindeans. The expedition consisted of 12000 men commanded by his Excellency the Commander in Chief ; from all I could clean of intellience from the followers it appeared there had been some hard fighting for five days ; but it ended as might be anticipated from the imposing force sent against the Sindeans. The moment the officer (who is one of the Staff and an Irishman) landed he set out for the Government House to inform Lady Colville of the event as it must be supposed she was in a state og anxiety her husband being the commander and her brother and her uncle Colonel T. Blair being also on the expedition. At day-light this morning orders arrived from the Government House to secure a passage and private cabin for the officer in th ship which takes this to England but there was no such accomodation as the cabins were all full ; and as another vessel will not sail from thence about ten days this and will be off to-day the chance is you will have this letter at least six weeks before the officers can reach England with the official intelligence. All kinds of European produce are a drug hee paricularly fine goods ; and rum brandy and geneva are for a song. The cholera has rather abated but still rages in a frightful manner.The Rio Janeiro packet arrived on Tuesday with letters to the 21st of November. Advices had been received from Rio Grande stating that Artigas had been taken prisoner. The Portuguese frigate Union had captured two insurgent privateers which had been committing depredations on the coast. The events in Portugal owing to which as well as to the idea that the King would be prudent enough to sanction what had taken place in Portugal the prices of produce had experienced very trifling alteration though if the contrary should be the case a considerable rise was anticipated. The following relates to what is passing in Peru :–Extract of a letter from Rio Janeiro dated November 20 :– The Chilians have at length carried into effect their boasted expedition which left Valparaiso on the 21st August and arrived at Pisco at the beginning of September. San Martin landed 4500 men but the blacks cattle &c. had all been previously sent away from the estates in that quarter so that they will be disappointed in meeting with partisans ; indeed the slaves and lower orders whom they expected to find favourable to their views are the most irritated against the insurgents. We have letters from Lima to the 12th September which speaks of the little apprehensions entertained of San Martin and his troops the Viceroy having a formidable force in the capital and vicinity of 8000 men commanded by good officers. The Viceroy is Commander-in-Chief La Serna second and La Mar and O'Reilly command divisions. They were observin San Martin's movements who already experienced the difficulties of subsisting his men. The Marquis of Vallembrozo was on his flank with a strong detachment of cavalry with a view to prevent him from sending emissaries into the interior and collecting horses. It is thought the insurgents will soon have to re-embark ; for as soon as they are a little pressed for provisions and fighting comes on numbers will desert. Those who have already come over describe their situation as very critical. Two vessels one an English and the other a French were preparing to sail from Callao for this place and by them we shall receive further particulars. The most enthusiastic preparations were making in Lima to proclaim the constitution in a formal manner for which purpose orders had been received from Madrid. This of itself is sufficient to defeat all views Cochrane and San Martin may have on the country except as before a little plunder on the open and defenceless parts of the coast.Letters from Sierra Leone dated the 24th of Nov. mention that the whole squadron was lying there.– The Pheasant Myrmidon Snapper and Thistle were lying off the Cape waiting for the Morgiana to complete her water provisions &c. which ship was obliged to be assisted by the squadron in consequence of her very sickly state. She had recently arrived from the River Gambia whither she had proceeded in dread of attack by the natives on our infant colony there. A letter of thanks had been voted to Captain Finlason by the merchants of that colony for the very able manner in which he brought to an amicable conclusion the differences between the Native Chiefs and the British interests in the Gambia. The Morgania brought from the Gambia Dr Dochard and forty-six men belonging to the mission under Major Gray for exploring Africa. Dr D. had been at Sago ; but in consequence of internal wars he was unable to proceed further. Major Gray was there with very few men ; he will not proceed further for some time.,
ID176,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,03,14,inform,Colonial IntelligenceSierra Leone Gazettes to the 16th of December have been received. It is satisafactory to learn that some more effectual measures than any before adopted by the French Government to prevent slave trading are now in a course of execution. The French brig of war Le Huron of 22 guns Commodore Du Pressit is employed in cruizing for that purpose.Earthquake at Zante Jan. 8.–The last week has been a scene of horror and destruction at Zante.– At four o'clock on the morning of the 29th of Dec. we had a violent shock of an earthquake which lasted nearly half a minute ; this was followed by eight other shocks between four and six o'clock which threw down one thousand three hundred houses. Providentially the first shock did not throw down many so that the inhabitants had time to escape before succeeding shocks otherwise theloss would have been dreadful. Only ten lives have been lost but not a house in the town has escaped without some injury. The town is still in a complete state of confusion ; one thousand give hundred houses more being so much injured as to be marked in order to be pulled down ; all the steeples in the place must be taken down. The streets are almost impassable from the fallen houses ; and great caution is required in walking to avoid the ruins that are still falling.,
ID177,Glasgow Herald,Glasgow,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,03,30,inform,Emigration to CanadaThe following is an extract of a letter from a tradesman belonging to Glasgow who has been six years in Upper Canada to a friend in this city :–York Upper Canada 14th November 1820. You wish to be informed of the encouragement that you might meet with by an emigration to this country; and as you have determined to place the most implicit confidence in what I may advance. I shall therefore state to you the truth and nothing but tl[?] truth so help me God.– In the first place you wish to know what might be the value of a hundred acres of land with six or eight acres of improvement. This is a question that I cannot give a decided answer to as it depends entirely on the situation where you wish to purchase; but I may with safety average wild land in this Upper Province say at 4 to 6 dollars per acre and the clearing or improving of each acre will cost you from 16 to 20dollars.–In the next place you wish to know the price of cattle. They have never been known to be cheaper than at the present time. A cow can be purchased at 20 dollars a pair of working oxen at 40 dollars; a good cart horse at 50 dollars; sheep 2 dollars a piece. In regard to farming utensils there are but few used in this country at any time and a new settler may be some years in the woods before we want any more than an axe (3 dollars) a plough (10 dollars) and a harrow (5 dollars.)–You wish to know the nature of a Government grant; that has now become no object as the charges made by Government exceed in many cases what you can purchase land for; and by buying land you have the advantage of choosing a situation agreeable to your mind; but the reverse is the case when you accept of a grant from Government for you must then take your chance by drawing by lottery; and as the land is already taken up for forty miles round this place you will then be obliged to go back into the woods and out of the world. You are at liberty to sell it as soon as you receive the grant; formerly you could.–You wish to know what sum you could establish yourself for in this country as a farmer. There is one thing obvious–the more you bring the less miseries and difficulties you will have to undergo. But as a true friend I would advise you not to think of leaving home with a sum less than t200 sterling with a sum less than this you undoubtedly subject yourself to hardships and troubles that you have no idea of. Though many have settled here for nothing their fate has been such that it is beyond my pend to describe; and my greatest enemy I should not advise to come to this country with the intention of farming with less capital than I have no stated to you. Many may flatter you and stuff your head with golden dreams about this country; but you must allow the experience that I have had to outweigh the statements of many that you may have had an opportunity of talking with who may pretend to have some knowledge of this country for there are but few settlements between Montreal and the falls of Niagara (a distance of nearly 600 miles) that I have not visited.–As to the necessaries wanted for a family who may think of coming to this country I should entirely confine myself to wearing apparel as clothes are the highest article in this country; and should you think of farming I would advise you to bring but few fine clothes but principally coarse and stout. Heavy luggage of any kind becomes very expensive and cumbersome bringing you up the river so far as this and is often liable to be damaged in consequence of the repeated re-shipping. The rate of charge of the transportation of good from Montreal to Kingston (200 miles) is 2 dollars per cwt.; and from Kingston to York (200 miles) they charge 1 dollar for each barrel bulk; and from Montreal to York you may get a passage for 10 dollars for each grown person.–By the by you wish to know the population of this town: it is indeed small in comparison to some of your towns; but I might say that the inhabitants of York might amount to 3000 people. But there is no place that I have visited in my travels that is more thriving than this town; and as a proof I can safely say that it is now twice the size that it was when I came here (now three years) and still continuing to increase greatly in buildings; but all wood.–You wish to know the different branches of business carried on here. They are principally house carpenters; and various other mechanics are also employed here.–You wish to know if any of the emigrants have arrived in this place. There are but very few I understand come thus far the greater part of them having stopped at a settlement called Perth about miles below Kingston. –Since I have now given answers to all your different queries let me now give my candid opinion respecting this country. In the first instance a farmer may live by hard labour; that is he may acquire a livelihood; but cash[?] is a complete hidden treasure and is as forbidden fruit to the farmer of this country; and in some places you may live for years and not even behold a silver dollar through a glass darkly as all is done by barter in the country. The next evil is the mixture of society; a very few good intermixed with a multitude of a very different character; but in many places you will be divested of all society either of a good or bad quality; in either of which situations I am afraid you will find yourself uncomfortable in consequence of its being so much different to what you have been accustomed to; and the opportunity of spending the sabbath in a religious worship you will also find wanting. And above all evils the fever and ague that none escape is the ruin of many a family in this country. But should you think of coming to this country in order to avoid this disease I would advise you to come no farther up the country than Perth settlement where this loathsome sickness is seldom known. Now my friend by what I have stated here I neither mean to advise or dissuade you from coming to this country; but take it into serious consideration before you embark upon this important.,
ID178,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,05,03,inform,CanadaProvincial Parliament of Lower Canada Quebec Legislative Council–March 17.This day his Excellency the Governor in Chief made the following[?] speech to both Houses:–Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and Gentlemen of the House of AssemblyWhen the Parliament met for the dispatch of public business[?] I did entertain a hope that the experience of the [?] few years would have led you to a mature and serious consideration[?] of the consequences that would inevitably follow[?] if the then state of things should not be remedied ; I[?] cannot therefore be surprised that I should now express[?] not only my disappointment but great concern that [?] same question of constitutional principle should have [?]ia disturbed the unanimity of your legislative proceedings[?].Upon this occasion I think it a duty which I owe to [?] and to your country to call upon you to consider during[?] this summer the result of the discussions of the sessesion[?] in all its bearings.You will see the administration of the civil government[?] left without any pecuniary means but what I shall advance[?] upon my own personal responsibility ; you will [?] individuals suffering under severe and unmerited hardships[?] caused by the wast of that constitutional authority that[?] is necessary for the payment of the expences of the civil[?] government. You will see the interior improvements[?] of the country nearly at a stand ; you will see in [?]ort the executive government in a manner palsied and powerless[?].When I shall again summon you to meet here in Parliament[?] you will come to decide the important question whether[?] the Government shall be restored to its constitutional[?[ energy or whether you are to deplore the prospect [?] lasting misfortune by a continuance in the present state [?] things. Important as that question is there can be no difficulty[?[ in the decision. When the blessingsof the British[?] constitution were granted to this province you re[?]ved with it the recorded experience of centuries of [?]ctise. There is no question of doubt or of difficulty [?]that may not find its precedent in the records of the Im[?]Imperial Parliament ; and I cannot thik that any wiser [?]guide need by desired.After which the Honourable Speaker of the Legislative [?]council said that it was the pleasure of his Excellency the [?]Governor in Chief that the Provincial Parliament should [?] prorogued until Thursday the 26th of April next.,
ID179,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,06,02,inform,We have received letters this morning from New South Wales which announce that the Skelton from Leith arrived at Hobart Town Van Dieman's Land on the 27th of Nov. last with her numerous settlers all well and in good spirits.,
ID180,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,06,27,inform,Colonial IntelligenceWe have received Canada Papers to the 10th May. The active exertions of the Governor to improve the inland navigation had given very general satisfaction. In the course of the Session of the Colonial Parliament which was prorogued on the 14th April no less than three Addresses were presented to Earl Dalhousie to be forwarded to the King ; one respecting the allowance of half-pay to the Militia ; another respecting the duties imposed in British ports on lumber from Canada ; and third related to the losses sustained by the people of Canada during the late war. His excellency the Governor had intimated that no objection would be made to the repeal of the grant of 2500l on account of the Civil List for the Colony provided the salaray of the Chief retired Justice the Receiver General and that of the Speaker of the House of Assembly should be continued in the whole amounting to 1800l. The grant has for some time been a prominent subject of complaint in the Colonial Parliament.The 37th Regiment for three years stationed in Lower Canada is about to leave the Colony for England. The Staff Corps was to proceed to the Ottawa to carry into effect the intended plan for removing the obstructions in that river.An article from Montreal dated May 5 states that a messenger was leaving that place to announce the union of the North and Hudson's Bay Companies at their respective establishments. The former of these companies was under control of Lord Selkirk and the schism that has so long reigned between them with its fatal consequences is well know to the Public.By Letters from Bombay we learn that 20 ships have been taken up by the vigilant Governor on board of which 5000 troops are embarked destined to the Persian Gulph to repair the disaster suffered by the surprise of the detachment left by Sir Wm. Kier under the direction of a young man. The gallant Gen. Lionel Smith has been selected for this important service ; and we have no doubt but that he will convince the Arabs of the impolicy of their treacherous proceedings and justify the high confidence which the Go vernment of Bombay have in his talents and valour.– His Excellency Mr. Elphinstone completely recovered is gone on a tour to Kutch to settle all disputes and to ascertain the true situation of the country.– How important it is for the Heads of the Presidencies thus to judge from actual observation instead of trusting to mere reports. This proves the benefits of appointing men of experience and energy in the conduct of our Indian Empire–which is now throuh the admirable conduct of the Governor General and the two other Presidencies in a state of unexampled tranquility and prosperity.,
ID181,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,06,09,inform,Van Dieman's LandWe have been favoured with the following extract of a letter from Captain Dixon of the ship Skelton dated Hobert Town Van Dieman's Land 29th November 1820 :–We arrived here on the 27th inst. all in good health.– This colony surpasses my expectation–climate very similar to England soil capable of any thing where an industrious manhas every thing to hope and nothing to fear ; the assistance given to settlers liberal and grants of land to the amount of from 400 to 2000 acres given them generally of excellent quality. This colony in fact is the only country that an Englishman should come to he neither changes climate not habits for here every thing hat occurs to him is the same except burning wood for coals. The country on the sea coast is very woody but much easier cleared than America and about ten miles in the interior several miles of extent have no wood at all. The ships behaves beautifully sails well and is easy ; we have never close reefed and not above twice double reefed and not strained a rope yarn nor split a sail.Extract of a letter received by My Leyden R. N. Leith from his Son Mate of the ship Skelton dated Sullivan's Cove off Hobart Town 29th November 1820 :–I take this opportunity of sending you a few lines by the ship Guildford which is to sail tomorrow for Baravia and then homewards. We left the Table Bay on 18th October and arrived here on 28th November making a very good passage. Did not see any vessel on the passage–made the island of Amsterdam and St Paul's on 28 November–went ashore on the island of Amsterdam for two or three hours found it to be barren entirely–only inhabited by give or six people from the Isle of France for the purpose of sealing. When we came near the land fell in with various winds and calms–made the river on Sunday about twelve o'clock and brought up off Hobart at three P M on Monday. The country has a very fine prospect a great deal of wood but interspersed with fields all in green for it is the spring here now–the pease are in full bloom. This town is very irregu larly built just like a Norwegian village–a deal of wooden houses–the appearance of the country pleases the eye greatly of the passengers and the visit they had from the Deputy Governor was very favourable. Governor M'Quarrie is to be here from Sidney in the course of a fortnight or three weeks to survey the Government works. The passengers are in great suspense whether they will forward themselves to Sydney or wait until he comes. Butter sells at 4s a lb ; coarse ship biscuits 35s. a cwt ; a pair of ashets middle size 21s. and every thing in like proportion. Salted pork would have sold very well–could clear L130 a cwt. Beef is about 6d. a lb. If you buy any here and pay in produce you pay more than in hard cash. There are few bush rangers now they were mostly all shot in the woods. No encouragement here for pickpockets. Some of the richest and most powerful men here have once been sent out as convicts but from their good behaviour got their emancipation. The Midship Leith upon the pier is here ; he is master of a colonial brig trading between Sydney and here. Our passengers tell me they can chuse what land they like ; but not the quality ; they must apply the saw and the hatchet a great deal. A hatchet costs 7s. 6d. a lb. Very few people have female servants as they can't trust them ; as those who come out are convicts and get soon married so they have all men servants.,
ID182,Caledonian Mercury,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,07,16,inform,American Papers.New York May 8. The sloop Hero Capt. Palmer arrived at Stonington last Tuesday in seventy-three days from New South Iceland with a cargo of oil. ON the 28th of March in lat. 21. S. long. 35. W. spokethe Brig Wilner of London from Buenos Ayres bound to Falmouth England ; the Captain of which informed Capt. P. that the Chilian army near Peru had fought two battles with the Royal army in both of which the Chilian army was victorious ; and it was supposed would cause the surrender of Peru soon to the Chilians.May 15. The gigantic projects that occupy the attention of our countrymen are truly surprising. A plan is now forming for example to establish a settlement at the mouth of the river Columbia for the purpose of importing teas direct from the East Indies. It is then proposed to transport this article of merchandize up the Columbia until it reaches the rocky mountains and then to proceed by land to the navigable branch of the Missouri. This embraces a space of three hundred and forty miles in extent. Of this distance 200 miles are represented by travellers as constituting an excellent road ; the remaining one hundred and forty comprehend the mountain barrier which must be passed by the intrepidity and labour of man. The merchandize will then by the aid of the Missouri and its subsidiary streams supply the whole western continent with the refreshing beverage. This shows the varied changes of commerse ; the Atlantic States have heretofore been the medium of supplying our western States with the productions of China ; but if this plan should be carried into effect we may receive our supply from that country through the western States.May 16. It is worthy of remark that among the numerous arrivals at this port yesterday were three British brigs from Dundee. This makes good the remark of a late Scotch gazette that Dundee was becoming a place of considerable trade.,
ID183,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,08,15,inform,Colonial IntelligenceAfrica.–Extract of a Letter from Capt. Colliver a Gentlemen belonging to the county of Cornwall and who is an Officer in the service of the African Comapny:–Cape Coast Castle April 21 1821. By the time you have received this it is probable the African Company will have ceased to exist ; we have received orders to hold ourselves in readiness to deliver up the Forsts and Settlements here to Government. It is understood they are to be put on the same footing as Sierra Leone. A list has been furnished to Government by the Company's Committee of their Officers their age length of service the situations they fill ; their emoluments[?] &c. We have been blockaded here since the 10th of February by the Ashantees[?] (an African tribe) who have commenced hostilities against us. On the day before mentioned our Governor received intelligence that a black man belonging to Cape Coast where the people are under our protection had been cruelly murdered by a Chief of the Fantes[?] at a place about six miles from Cape Coast called Moree[?]. I was immediately ordered to assemble all the soldiers I could in five minutes and proceed to Moree to seize the murderer. I quickly set off with four officers and 85 soliders. A little before we entered the town of Moree where the savages between 2 and 3000 in number were assembled we saw the mangled remains of their unforunate victim. The town stands near the top of a hill on the summit of which is an old Dutch Fort. As soon as we entered the town a fire was opened upon us ; but as my orders were to seize the murderer if possible without bloodshed I did not for some time allow the men to return the fire. However perceiving they were resolved to oppose us I gave directions to my little party to give them a volley and then to charge. The negroes retired as we advanced and in less than an hour we gained the hill from which our opponents fled in every firection. We demanded the keys of the fort from the principal man belonging to Moree ; who not being engaged in the affair had remained and who immediately gave them up. In the fort which has a draw-bridge we were perfectly secure from the attack of the negroes. The body we defeated were Fantees who were assembled to assist the Ashantees in enforcing some very unjust demands made by them on the people of Cape Coast. As soon as the Ashantees who reside near Cape Coast learned that the Governor had sent an armed force against their friends their drum beat to arms and they hastened after us ; fortunately we had defeated our opponents before they arrived. However they rallied the Fantees and took a position about half a mile from the town with a determination to oppose our little party. The Governor apprised of our situation assembled all the forces he could muster and speedily about 500 of the Cape Coast people headed by our officers and carrying the British flag were seen approaching. The enemy immediatel retired and we were relieved from our disagreeable situation after having been from nine in the morning till four in the afternoon exposed to a burning sun without refreshment. The negroes had 47 killed and upwards of 100 wounded in this affair ; we had one soldier killed and four wounded. Since the affair we have not seen one of the Ashantees or the Fantees here ; and a total stoppage of trade has taken place. We have not learned how the King of Ashantee intends to act nor is it safe to venture out of our limits except in large parties.New South Shetland–The Lord Melville J. Clark master has arrived in the London Docks from the New South Shetland fishery which he left on the 31st of March having on board the following persons belogning to the crews of the undermentioned vessels which had been wrecked and whom he landed at Buenos Ayres on the 21st of April viz.From the Hannah Captain Johnson–J. Knowles (cooper) R. Thompson (joiner) J. Colditch W. Jones T. Lewis H. Pearman J. Boyd A. Pringle R. Richards and W. Martin.From the Minerva Captain Burn–J. Stephens R. Pearson J. Collilice W. Wisslock W. Pile and J. Wallar.From the Lady Troubridge Captain Sherrard–J. Forsham (first mate) D. Humphreys (seaman) J. Wolin G. Martin G. Inglefield M. Swallow T. Williams J. Parsonage W. Rome W. Dead J. Williams and J. Williams.Captain Clark also carried to Buenos Ayres the crew of the American schooner Venus Capt. Nappue. He sailed from the River Plate on the 28th of April and reached the Downs on the 31st ult. Capt. Clark left a small colony at Easter Harbour consisting of the following individuals:–R. Gibbs of London first officer of the Lord Melville ; G. Robertson of Hamburgh second officer of the Minerva a vessel reported lost but since arrived in the Brazils ; J. Jornan of Leith boatswain of the Lord Melville ; P. Howson of Carron carpenter ; J. Lockey of Essex ; J. Semple of Dundee ; J. Ash of Liverpool ; J. Wares a Portuguese ; William South of Aberden ; J. Roberts of Liverpool ; and J. Havers of Harwich seamen.–They were left in good health and spirits with a stock of twelve months provisions and all the materials necessary for erecting three or four houses.,
ID184,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,10,17,inform,Colonial IntelligenceAlarming Fires in the Woods of Main and New Brunswick.–A gentleman who arrived here on Thursday in the schooner Active from Eastport informs that the drought in the neighbourhood of St. Croix river the present season has been unusually severe and that the fires in the woods have raged to a more alarming extent than ever before known. Several buildings have been burnt at the parish of St. Stephen's on the British side of the river others were saved with a great difficulty. From Calais to Eastport about a fortnight since the vessel in which our informant took passage was entirely enveloped in smoke.– In various places the fires have been burning for six weeks ; there had been no rain for eight weeks to wet the ground.–Boston Paper.Extract of a letter to a Lady in the vicinity of Chelmsford dated New Essex Graham's Town on the frontiers of Africa June 21 1821:–I am seven hundred miles from the Cape of Good Hope and should not receive intelligence of an arrival there for at least three weeks ; but my correspondent at Cape Town will procure comfortable lodgings &c. until a ship sails for Algoa Bay which is distant from me one hundred and thirty miles.– Few ships from England proceed farther than the Cape. Good ploughmen are wanted and good footploughs with spare wrought-iron shares and coulters which are very expensive here ; iron-work nothing under 1s. per lb. Ransome's ploughs sell for 14l. each. Ploughmen will find plenty of employers at from 2l. to 8l. per month and their board. Meat sells at 2d. per lb ; wheat 12s. bushel ; and barley 6s. Other articles of housekeeping are about the same price as in England ; but on the other hand we are in one of the healthiest climates in the world and free from rent tithes and taxes of every description. Any one may live here as well with 500l. as in his native land with 5000l. The farming work is still[?] done with oxen which are very fine and bought at 3l. each ; cows are 30s. ; and sheep 6s. a-head (having tails that weight 8lb. a complete lump of fat) ; clothes linen and all English goods very dear.– Good mechanics of any description have very high wages. A cargo of Ladies would make a good speculation in proceeding to the New Settlement ; for all that came out with the settlers have got husbands.By letters received from the Cape of Good Hope we understand that the Royal African corps was disbanded there on the 26th of June last.By letters from Bombay dated the 24 of May we learn that the Governor the Honourable Mr. Elphinstone has returned to the Presidency after a five months' tour to the northward. He must minutely examined all the judicial and revenue systems–furnishing the Collectors and Agents of Government with particular instructions for their guidance. He also sent out strong detachments to reduce some predatory hordes who have long plundered the country and been a terror to the peaceable natives. Those plunderers are are called Bheels[?]. They live in the hills and woods and descend in bands to commit their depredations. By these letters we learn what is essential for young men going out to India to know that Writers and Cadets now undergo an examination as to their knowledge of the native languages ; and no youth has a chance of success who is ignorant of the Hindoustanee[?]. The highest respect is entertained for the able manner in which the disinterested Dr. Gilchrist prepares young men for the services. We rejoice to learn that the Cholera Morbus has abated its rigour in the Deccan.Batavia journals of the 28th April give an account of a terrible earthquake which took place on the 29th December last on the south coast of Celebes. It did immense damage especially at Budekomba[?] where the sea rose several times to a prodigious height and then falling in with the incredible rapidity alternately deluged and left the shore destroying all the plantations from Bontain to Boelekomba[?]. Many hundred have lost their lives. The fort of Boelekom-[?] ba was much damaged that of Bontain less so. On the 4th of January this year there was another shock of an earthquake but we do not learn that it did any damage. It is with much regret we lay before our readers the following details of a most calamitous fire which broke out at Halifax Nova Scotia on the 17th ult. :Halifax Sept. 17. The conflagration this morning was one of the most awful and destructive every witness in Halifax. It originated in Sackville-street in the Bakery occupied by Shay and Milany and before it was discovered had gained an alarming height. It was near two o'clock when the bells were rung. The troops seamean of his Majesty's ships and inhabitants soon assembled ; the engines were judiciously placed lines formed to different reservoirs of water and every exertion made to extinguish the fire but we regret to state that before any check could be given to it the whole block of buildings with the exception of a house situated at the corner of Sackville and Blowers'-streets occupied by Mr H. Croskill the houses occupied by Mrs. Neilson and Mr T. Muirhead on Barrington street and a stable belonging to J. W. Johnston Esq. in Granville-street were consumed.For some time great apprehensions were entertaintained that the fire would extend to the houses on the opposite side of the streets but fortunately it did not. Of the property burnt only about t1500 were insured and the calamity has mostly fallen where it will long be severely felt–upon windows and orphan children– upon industrious tradesmen whose whole stock of worldly wealth was invested in the tenements they occupied.To the troops and the seamen of the ships of war the town is as usual greatly indebted for the exertions made by them. Twenty-one houses were consumed with other valuable property.America appears to be very unhealthy just now– The accounts from Long Island Baltimore Amelia Island and Norfolk are extremely calamitous. The whole of Amelia Island is a perfect hospital not one family being well and in many instances not one to assist another. So dreadful indeed is the disease that there is not one sentinel to do duty. A New York Paper of the 30th ult. says–We are sorry to perceive from the Franklin Gazette that the malignant fever continues to make serious ravages among our fellow citizens at Baltimore. Four full victims to it in the 24 hours ending on Sunday morning ; and six during the 24 hours ending Monday morning.,
ID185,Aberdeen Journal,Aberdeen,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,11,07,inform,Colonial IntelligenceIn our last paper we gave from the Jamaiza Gazettes an account of the dreadful drought which had prevailed in that island for more than twelve months and the consequences of which had been most calamitous. We are now however most happy in being able to state upon the authority of a Gentleman who left Jamaica some days subsequently to the date of our preceding advices that this terible evil in such a climate particularly had at length ceased. The following is the substance of the information which has been communicated to us:–A few hours previous to my going on board the Jamaica packet on the 3d of September the rain fell in such torrents as to flood the streets of Kingston to the depth of two feet and it seemed to be general throughout the district of Liguanea.Though too late to save the crop of sugar for the present or perhaps the ensuing year this seasonable change of weather would at least have the effect of staying the mortality among the cattle. As such those interested in the island will receive the intelligence with gratification. On some properties the canes had been cut as fodder to save the stock.We have the Cape of Good Hope papers to the 6th August and as they are unusually barren in their contents it is fair to infer that every thing was proceeding there in a satisfactory manner. The only article of the slightest interest relates to the change the Governor is gradually effecting in the currency by removing from it all the base metal and substituting gold and silver of standard value.The Gazette of Dordrecht publishes accounts from Java to the 29th May. They confirm the statement of the decrease of the malady and mention that it was almost wholly subdued in the district of Samarang but that 18000 persons mostly Europeans had fallen victims. Batavia and Sourabaya were still infected.India–Extract of a letter from Calcutta dated June 20:–If the extension of foreign trading be considered with you as a means suited to alleviate the pressure and ease the difficulties of Old England which we read of here we imagine that India can furnish beneficial openings to this kind of remedy. The use of articles of British production and exports is gaining ground rapidly here ; the English printed cottons are now carried in considerable quantities as far as Rajpootha and find a ready sale if they be of handsome patterns. The warehouses now are so far from being overstocked that before the arrival of two vessels from England in the last fortnight all European articles were exorbitantly high ; mustard flour sold about 20s. a pound ; cheese 1[?] ; ham three half crowns the ld ; a common round hat three guineas. These undoubtedly were prices arising from an unusual scarcity ; but it surely cannot be so very bad a trading which admits even indicidentally of such an exaggeration of price and profit. Government bonds are now at six per cent premium though they bear but half the usual or legal interest of the country. This is a tolerable evidence of the credit of the Company and the Government. There is a great and increasing prosperity in Hindostan. The augmented cultivation of the Upper Provinces within these two years is surprising.,
ID186,Glasgow Herald,Glasgow,Scotland,United Kingdom,1821,02,05,inform,Emigration.The following is an extract of a letter dated Louisville August 12th 1820 from a Scotchman who has been ong settled in America to his friend a Scotch Farmer who rents 500 acres of land in the County of Middlesex.The circumstances in which this country is placed at present are truly melancholy when compared to what they have been ; yet still it is a better country to live in than Britain. It is not easy to make money by farming at present in the United States for the want of a market; and I am of opinion that things will not mend in this respect for some years for all are sellers and none buyers. All kinds of produce are selling or rather offered for sale at one-third of what prices were two years ago. Land of course has fallen in the same ratio. The best of cleared land within from 5 to 10 miles of this town is offered for them from 10 to 20 dollars an acre. You will thence conclude that this is a favourable time to purchase – and that for a man who has a little money and a large family able and willing to labour with their hands this is a most excellent country as he can easily raise on this cheap land all the necessaries and many of the luxuries of life. He will find it difficult to get gold or silver or even our own bad bank notes; but a man cannot be badly off with more beef mutton pork and grain than he can dispose of. He has no rent to make up by term day: his taxes are next to nothing and although he may grumble to have to turn his pigs into his corn field to save the expense of reaping it or to see his apples rotting under his trees by barn-fulls because he has not room or use for them yet still these are beatable distresses compared to those of the poor farmers in our native land and as I suppose in England. To the wealthier farmer the change is not beneficial or desirable. It is true that if he stays long in Britain he will soon become less wealthy; yet still he would for some time regret the change. He would miss many things made necessary by habit; he would find his servants more lazy and less obedient ; and he would even experience pain because the modes of farming he is accustomed to will not do here; but when he gets over these things he will find the advantage of the change. To say nothing of the difference of the Government and the satisfaction of chusing one's own rulers there are many desirable things here. I estimate as the greatest the ease of providing for one's family. A man may with very little exertion leave to all his children land enough to make them independent. Hence that sickening anxiety about the future fate of a family is little known here.,
ID187,Glasgow Advertiser,Glasgow,Scotland,United Kingdom,1822,01,28,inform,SOUTH AMERICA. Extract of a letter from an Englishman dated Lima September 10 1821.Lima is what an Englishman would call a dirty colonial town; 6000 inhabitants is the outside of its population; the whites are about 1200 Europeans and not as many born in the country; the rest are blacks and mulattoes. Of the mulattoes there are eight various shades. I never saw such a wretched herd as Lima incloses; more poverty and miserty than in any town of the size in the world.– There are some few splendid houses but the rest so disgustingly filthy that you cannot go into them without being covered with dust and vermin. The streets as in all American towns run at right angles; a powerful stream of water in each : the town is capable of great improvement. The climate must be bad for the whole population look as if turned out of the hospitals for a day's air; a half-born race–melancholy in their faces. On the whole coast of Peru we made the same observation; the ague very general with fever–their habits and manner of living increase the evil: thin clothing and vegetable diet–nights very cold –I sleep under a heavy blanket and could bear another; a thick fog prevents the sun from coming out in winter; the heat however is not excessive during summer; on the whole not an oppressive climate if the people had any idea of living in a rational way. Very few families cook at home–they buy their greasy messes boiled in the streets in pulperias and in the squares: not six families in Lima that have wine on their tables: they drink brandy at all hours and excuse themselves for not having any thing that is expensive by saying it gives the ague; the same person who denies himself a glass of wine will lay twenty doubloons on a card in the evening. Their money goes in gambling debauchery and dress; every woman high and low has her price; a lady take no offence at her frailty being exposed; she tells you she is quite as good as her neighbours and needs be no better. The Spanish nation and Government are the cause of all the degradation of South America: every Viceroy from Pizarro to Pezuela was a plunderer a teacher of immorality in words and deeds. The miserable state of this people seems incredible–one must see to believe it : scarcely a young lady can read or write or use a needle; few houses that the Devil has not appeared in; and a devout lady is accompanied in her carriage by the Virgin Mary. Thus is ignorance imposed upon by knaves : as to priestcraft it reigns here in all its glory : a third part of Lima is covered with churches some of them very splendid. The whole trade of this part of Peru depends on the single mine of the mountain of Pasco for returns : if this is worked to advantage it will produce six millions of produce. Mining may be carried to any extent it is true; but this requires tranquility and good government. People in Europe have the most erroneous ideas of Peru; every traveller and historian who has written or talked about it ought to be made to stand in the pillory for a liar.Arica the second port of Peru and the great outlet to Upper Peru is a wretched village of hovels covered with mud–about 400 Mulattoes and Indians–placed on a sand bank–the pepole all in the ague–not a boat or ship of any sort. The harbour-master came off on a bulsa (two bladders lashed together) paddled by an Indian. We could not get a basket of fruit or vegetables for money. Their cultivation was three leagues off but they were too lazy to fetch any thing though a seventy-four and a frigate lay-to twenty hours offering them any price for their tropical fruits.I hire a small room for 12 dollars a month and sleep on the ground; borrowed a chair and bought some crockery No such thing as a tavern : never was. Letters of no use; no one asks me to his house. I go to bed at eight o'clock to kill time. A play twice a week : the most fashionable ladies stand up in the front boxes and light a segar by the chandlier; the house filled with smoke.There are 82 titled familes mostly idiots–all reduced to poverty by the emancipation of their slaves. If the war be continued a year Peru will be the most wretched country on the globe; indeed the Indians will regain their empire and exterminate all other colours. The number of blacks in the viceroyalty is estimated at seventy thousand– 25000 in Lima and adjacent villages; the total population of Peru about three millions–three-fourths Indians.About the town there are many fine gardens with pretty country houses. Provisions of all sorts excellent and in the greatest variety; fruits of all climates in the marketplace the produce of the sea-shore and the Cordillera.– Beef and mutton excellent–the chief supplies come from Jauja an other vallies in the Cordillera. The sea-shore produce is contiued to little vallies badly cultivated; those about the town would disgrace the free negroes of Carolina. Most valuable land a league from the town half cultivated and half abandoned; every thing left to starved slaves; such famished objects I never behald; no other hands to cultivate. When emancipation becomes general they will not work and famine must ensue.,settlement description
ID188,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1822,10,19,inform,On Monday 14 instant the ship Andromeda of London James Muddle master sailed from Leith Roads for New South Wales with 67 passengers all of whom are very respectable people. The vessel has on board a full cargo of merchandise and a great number of agricultural implements.,
ID189,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1822,10,19,inform,On Monday 14th instant the ship Andromeda of London James Muddle master sailed from Leith Roads for New South Wales with 67 passengers all of whom are very respectable people. The vessel has on board a full cargo of merchandise and a great number of agricultural implements.,
ID190,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1823,06,14,inform,Portsmouth June 5.–This day the ship William ShandCaptain Kerr arrived direct from Port Jackson New South Wales which place she left on the 1st of February not having touched any where and made her voyage round Cape Horn in four months and five days. She has a full cargo of wool and sea oil ; the former principally the produce of the flocks of Mr Macarther and is much improved in fineness in better condition for market and is altogether superior to the first class of Spanish wool.–Trade was toletably brisk at all our settlements in that quarter and the crops had been productive.,
ID191,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1823,09,10,inform,Sailed from Leith Roads on Sunday for Van Dieman's Land and New South Wales the Australian Company's ship Triton. This vessel takes out fifty-eight settlers and a full cargo with a small supply of live stock for the improvement of the breeds of cattle in those settlements.,
ID192,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1823,09,03,inform,Naval IntelligenceEast India ShippingCowes August 28–One of our pilor boats landed yesterday at Southampton some passengers out of the ship Triumph from Bombay ; they reported having fallen in with Daphane from Batavia to Cowes with damage to her sails and having strained much by experiencing a heavy gale off the Cape of Good Hope which lasted 32 days. Also spoke the Lord Wellington Bengal to Lisbon 5th ult. lat. 17. S. lon. 3. W. and the Active of Salem St Helena to Cowes 28th lat. 15. lon. 28. Left the Aurora at Bombay.PortsmouthAugust 28.–sailed the James Sibbald Forbes for Bombay.Atlas Clifton London to Madras and Bengal was spoken with on the 5th June lat. 6. N. by the Mary arrived at Rio Janeiro. The Princess of Wales and Marquis Wellington London to India was spoken with on the 6th June lat. 37. lon. 18. by the Albion Hunter which arrived at Demerara 27th June from London.The Ajax Gillett from the Cape of Good Hope and David Scott Bunyan from Bengal arrived at Madras on the 28th March.The David Clark Falconer from the Cape of Hope arrived at Bengal on the 26th March and the Ceres Pridham from Madras on the 28th.The Isabella convict ship sailed from Cork on Thursday week for New South Wales. She took between three and four hundred culprits who had been sentenced for various crimes to transportation.Greenland Fishery.The Spencer Keith arrived at Montrose from the Greenland seats on Tuesday last with five small fish and one hundred and fifty seals supposed to boil fifty tuns of oil. Captain Keith and the crew describe the season as very unfavourable. They saw many whales but the high winds and great quanities of ice rendered fishing in many instances impossible. There has not been so much ice in Greenland for the last twenty years.The Gleaner Shand and Eclipse Sutter the former with 13 fish 70 tuns and the latter with 6 fish 100 tuns and the Jean Stafford with three fish 55 tuns have arrived at Peterhead from the Greenland whale fishery.On Tuesday last a whale fishing ship supposed to belong to Hull passed a vessel belonging to Aberden off Redhead and broomed 9 fish.From Lloyd's List–August 29DealAugust 28–The vessels belonging to the Corporation of the Trinity House have this morning placed a buoy with a staff and vane near the Goodwin South Sand Head bearing by compass from the south end of this town south by east.Smyrna July 17–His Majesty's ships Cambrian Hind and Medina are cruising in the Arthes. An Austrian brig of war arrived here some days ago with two pirates a schooner and a large tugsail boat. Another was destroyed by her.,
ID193,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,05,05,inform,The Mariner Douglas from New South Wales was totally lost 1st July on the Island of Chiloe and three of the crew drowned.,
ID194,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,01,21,inform,William and James Nisbet and William Kerr prisoners in the jail here accused of housebreaking and theft have been indicted and are to be tried before the High Court of Justiciary on the 26th instant. The two Nisbets are brothers.By the arrival of the brig Minerva from Sydney New South Wales which place she left in February last we learn that the Morley had arrived there on the 7th of that month with a detachment of the Buffs regiment under the command of Lieutenant and Adjutant Mackay. She had previously touched at Hobart Town Van Dieman's Land where she landed 170 male convicts two having died on the passage.,
ID195,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,01,31,inform,Hunt.–It is understood that Hunt will be taken in a short time from Hertford gaol and put on board one of the hulks lying off Woolwich preparatory to his being transported for his natural life by the first convict-ship which will sail from this country to New South Wales.The augmentation of the army consists in the formation of two regiments the 94th and 95th infantry and in the intended raising of four others but which will not be embodied for some time. If we look at the previous strength of the army of this extended Empire the small increase in question will not only excite no alarm but it will be considered absolutely necessary for ordinary purposes. The total number of regulars voted for the last year (exclusive of the East Indies) was only 71000 including officers. These may be said to be distributed in the following manner :–Great Britain 18000 Ireland 24000 West Indies 7000 North America and Africa 6500 Gibraltar Mediterranean &c. 8000 Cape of Good Hope } Ceylon } Mauritius } New South Wales }7500 71000,
ID196,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,03,27,persuade,Prison Discipline.The Fifth Report of the Committee of the Society for the Improvement of Prison Discipline &c.–1823. With an Appendix &c.This Report only reached us yesterday ; but the Society brings so much benevolence into activity under the guidance of practical wisdom aided by very enlightened views of the best interests of society that we consider any delay improper in calling the attention of the public to their valuable proceedings. The present Report abounds with evidence that they have not relaxed in their exertions. At home not only are the laws improving but the magistracy are carrying improvements into all the practical departments. A great many jails designed on much better principlpes are in progress in different parts of the country ; and in those which are used it may be said generally that much more attentions is paid to health cleanliness diet employment and classification. It must not be thought however that nothing remains to be done. There are still jails in which prisoners are double ironed and chained to the floor of their cels from night to morning ; others in which persons committed for trial are fettered with irons of the weight of from seven to nine pounds ; and others in which debtors are exposed to the contaminating society of criminals in which neither the various classes of prisoners nor the two sexes are kept separate from each other and in which all are allowed to be idle. The Magistrates of Surrey have provided a covered vehicle for conveying prisoners to the Sessions'house ; but in the metropolis it would appear the practise still continues of inflicting public degradation on parties arraigned or merely suspected of crime by marching them handcuffed through the streets of London ; and very recently a party of one hun- dred prisoners were marched for a mile handcuffed through the open streets in order to be formally set at liber- ty by proclamation ! So much for metropolitan decorum ! These shameful exhibitions and practises cannot however long maintain their ground ; the publicity given to them through the proceedings of the Society should of itself be enough to do them away ; but while they are continued England should be somewhat chary of her boasts. The views and principles of the Prison Society are attracting notice and gaining ground in France Switzerland the Netherlands Hanover Bavaria Wurtemberg Denmark Norway Sweden and Russia. At Christiana the Magistrates have already resolved on the erection of a new city gaol. In St Petersburgh the prisoners are now furnished with food clothing baths and medical assistance. A Ladies' Association under the patronage of the Princess Mesthersky is also in full activity at St Petersburgh ; and there is an auxiliary prison society at Orel on the very frontiers of Siberia. Seven thousand prisoners passed through Orel last year ; but their chains have been lightened and their condition meliorated generally through the exertions of the Russian Society. For details however we must refer to the Report itself ; but we cannot take leave of it without making special notice of the benefits conferred on society by the Female Associations and Temporary Refuge. The almost miraculous power of kindness when accompanied as genuine kindness often is with quiet feeling and unobtrusive goodness continues to be exemplified in the Ladies' Committee of which Mrs Fry we believe is still at the head. In Newgate idleness dissipation and licentiousness have been succeeded by industry order and restraint ; and the same committee accomplish much good by visiting the ships in which convicts are embarked for New South Wales. Arrangements are thus made for the formation of schools for moral and religious instruction during the voyage and the convicts are furnished not only with suitable clothing and other necessaries but the means of employment in the manufacture of such articles as may be readily sold for their relief on arriving at the colony. These are truly good works ; and too much praise cannot be bestowed on the Ladies by whom they are performed. It is gratifying to observe that Female Associations for visiting prisons have been established in Bedford Bristol Carlisle Colchester Derby Dumfries Durham Exeter Lancaster Nottingham Plymouth York and Glasgow. We had once thought that by this time we might have added Edinburgh ; and we are inclined to hope that the present Lord Provost will yet employ his influence in establishing a Lady's Society for the prisons of our Metropolis.– There too we had cherished and still cherish the hope of seeing a House of Refuge. The temporary refuge of the Prison Society is chiefly for affording relief to distressed boys who on their discharge from the prisons of the metropolis have expressed a desire to abandon their criminal courses. Many of these are in circumstances of urgent want ; and the Committee can now look round wtih pleasure on many who are variously settled and conducting them- selves exemplarily. In the temporary refuge they are trained up to habits of industry instructed in moral and religious duty and after a time are provided with suitable situations. There is a great similarity in the histories of the individuals admitted into this asylum ; but the greater number obviously consists of boys who had been almost driven to commit petty thefts from want of employment or destitution or who from neglect or loss of parents had fallen into the company of professed thieves. The Committee mention that on one recent occasion no less than eight boys were released from Newgate in one day and immediately after they had undergone the sentence of flogging which upon some insane rule is usually carried into effect on the day of their discharge. Their persons are thus marked with the stigma of guilt and from soreness and want of strength they are disabled from working at the very time they ought to go in search of employment. No more effectual plan could have been devised to irritate these boys against society to prevent them from obtaining employment though desirous of it or to impel them to recommence their career of crime. We entreat those who are inclined to look upon what they call a smart whipping as the only corrective for juvenile offences to reflect a little on the consequences to which their system inevitably tends. We are decidedly and in all cases against the deliberate infliction of pain merely to be felt as such. In the case of children if not necessary for that purpose it will certainly give them the idea of power superior to their own and may thus be the means of constraining more readily than otherwise ; but the law when it inflicts pain has always other means of evincing its power and constraining those who are within its grasp. Its most important function is to prevent crime ; its next is o convince those who comit offences that the means of detection are on the whole so sure that nothing is to be gained by the commission ; and its next to make restitution onerous and complete. There may also be some classes of criminals who ought to be considered and treated as mad–some are curable ; and some as incurably furious who must either be cut off altogether or confined for life. We are not opposed to the infliction of punishments because in our opinion the most effectual of those will be found to consist in the best means of preventing or remedying the evils produced by crime. All exposures restraints constraints and compulsory reparations are punishments. We are only hostile to the infliction of pain for no other purpose but because pain is produced. If it can be made obvious to the sufferers that the pain inflicted protects others or affords true reparation for the wrongs done to them or society we shall then grant that such punishments may be both just and expedient. The Prison Society while they vindicate themselves temperately but firmly from the charge of having yielded to a sort of blind and irrational benevolence and advocated measures which went to raise the condition of prisoners above that of common labourers do still seem to us to have been too much moved by the coarse jokes and reckless speculations of a clever essayist. If they err at all they seem now to be somewhat too indulgent to the advocates of hard labour and severe punishments. We are rather inclined to think them too decidely in favour of the tread mill which they allow has been so worked or constructed at different places as to form very unequal measures of punishment and they very properly insist that every tread-mill should be provided with a regulator by which its rate of revolution may at all times be restrained within safe limits and a dial-register (lately invented by Mr Bate instrument maker to the Board of Excise) by which the rate of labour may be at any time accurately ascertained and which ( they think ) should in no case exceed 12000 feet in ascent for one day. There is an able argument in the report against compelling persons to labour who are merely imrpisoned for trial : and there is a great mass of curious and useful information in the Appendix.,
ID197,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,03,06,inform,Total Charge t7856 0 11In January 1823 there were 3031 in the hulks ; 2138 have been received since ; 1402 have been sent to New South Wales ; and 300 to Bermuda ; 468 have been discharge by pardon or transferred to other establishments ; 3 have escaped ; 43 have died ; and 2953 remained in the different hulks on 1st Janury last. The health of these prisoners has been good their conduct orderly.The Office-bearers of the Refuge for the Destitute have during the last year given relief to 424 persons. They have apprenticed to trades recommended to service or employment or restored to parents and friends 214 individuals :–under their charge at present 154. Most of the male culprits require to be kept two years at least. The expenditure has been very considerable. Mr Peel has recommended a grant from Parliament.As we feared the bill introduced for the purpose of qualifying persons possessed of personal property to serve as juries contains no regulations for the more impartial striking of juries or returning or making up of those who are to serve on each jury. There does seem to be an improvement on the form of the returns to be made by the Constables to the Sheriffs.,
ID198,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,04,03,inform,Scottish Intelligence.Repeated instances have lately occurred in whcih dwelling houses have suffered damage by fire owing to the carelessnes of servants and others who by way of economy take off fires at night and put the burning coals under the grate not recollecting that in the construction of almost every house the stone placed under the grate is supported by timber separated from the hearth stone by some lime only. The wood underneath being once ignited the fire will rapidly spread and may in a few hours involve the whole tenement in flames.Emigration to Australia.–We understand that the establishment of an Australian Company has suggested to a number of public spirited individuals the idea of forming a society to aid deserving persons in their endeavours to emigrate and settle in New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land and that matters are actually in progress for carrying this benevolent project into effect. On Wednesday a meeting was held in the Freemasons' Hall Niddry Street which was respectably attended the Rev. Mr Lothian in the Chair when a series of resolutions were moved by William Ellis Esq. S. S. C. and seocnd by Robert Paul Esq. of the Commercial Bank. The principal object comprehended in those were the security of the persons and property of emigrants on the voyage–the maintenance of a regular communication with friends left behind and the insuring a friendly welcome temporary accommodation and facilities for permanent settlement in the country of their adoption. It was also proposed to give assistance in money to deserving emigrants for the purpose of defraying the expenses of freight and passage out–every applicant being first well recommended and his character subjected to strict scrutiny. Masons wrights smiths and other artisans schoolmasters farm servants and labourers are the classes to which the principles of the society specially apply.According to the opinion of persons largely engaged in the silk trade the amount of drawback to be allowed on silk that has paid the duty will be between t300000 and t400000.On Sunday evening a disturbance took place in a house in Tobago Street and the Police were called who to make sure of the rioter secured the door ; at which a young woman a servant became so much alarmed that she leaped out of a window situated on the third floor whereby her back was broken. She now lies very ill in the Royal Infirmary.The Army–The several Recruiting Parties throughout Great Britain and Ireland having received their instructions are now actively employed in raising men for the three new Regiments of the Line whose establishments it is expected will be in a very short time completed. The Head-quarters of the 97th Regiment are changedfrom Gosport to Winchester.,
ID199,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,05,12,inform,House of CommonsThursday May 6.Mr J. Smith presented a petition from the Australian Company which was founded for the purpose of cultivating lands in New South Wales praying that they might be incorporated.The petition was ordered to be referred to a Committee.,
ID200,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,06,09,inform,Mr Secretary Peel in moving the commitment of the Transportation Bill stated that the objects of the bill were first to continue the laws on transportation that would expire before the next session ; and next to cimplify the law. In the last session a bill had been passed to enable the Crown to make an experiment of the union of the hulk and transportation system by sending convicts to Bermuda. There had been as yet hardly time to decide fully on the experiment but as far as it could be judged of it was satisfactory. It had been hithero complained that transportation was a very esqual punishment and certainly there was a great different in the effect of the punishment upon a man of settled habits and with a family and upon a man of no fixed habits to whom as hitherto managed it had scarcely been a punishment. He wished it to be known that arrangements had been made in New South Wales to send some of the convicts to a distant part of the settlement where the punishment would be more severe. A selection would be made from the convicts so as to make the punishment efficient against those to whom it had hitherto had no terror.– He gave this statement because it was right the public should know that transportation would be henceforward a real punishment.,
ID201,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,08,25,inform,Press at Cape of Good HopeMr Greig after stating the correspondence which took place between him and the Fiscal which led to the suppression of his journal gives the following account of his interview with that functionary. On Monday evening the Fiscal sent a messenger to me requesting I would call at his house in Strand-street; I did so ; he then opened a conversation upon the subject of my paper The South African Commercial Advertiser and said he was instructed to inform me that I had departed from the Prospectus – that it was become obnoxious to the Government and referred more particularly to the last three or four Numbers. I asked him to point out such parts as were immediately objectionable. He then mentioned some leading remarks which (he said) bore upon the Administration of the Colony. He further pointed out as ob- noxious all quotations which had been made from De Lolne[?] Blackstone and Civil Servant'swork Lacon and generally all extracts relative to the Liberty of the Press observing – Nobody can doubt the obvious tendency of these ; and as we are not men in this Colony but merely infants it was in his opinion dangerous to insert such matter. He added also that it was expected I should in future publish no parts of trials but wait until the whole were finished ; and even then all scurrilous parts (such as the Memorial of Mr L. Cooke to the Treasury) were to be omitted. That I was further to bound down with two sureties in the penalty of ten thousand rix-dollars that nothing of the offensive nature pointed out should appear in any future number ; and lastly that I was to take particular care that the next number (18) contained no matter of the description alluded to nor any notice of Mr Edward's trial. To all this I replied that I would give no promise as to what would appear in the next or any future number. That I required time to consider what was fitting to be done with regard to the security demanded.The Morning Chronicle makes the following remarks on this case :– We cannot say that we are surprised that acts of this description should take place in our Colonies. Uncontrouled power produces every day in Europe the worst effects on men of the best dispositions and the best talents and the Governors of our conquered Colonies and New South Wales are unfortunately quite absolute. In Europe the people under absolute Governments have this advantage over the people in our colonies that men in office are generally selected with some reference to abilities and acquirements. But with the exception of the East Indies the Gonernment of which with all its faults generally we believe avails itself of talents our colonies are unfortunately considered as mere places of refuge for the relatives of our Aristocracy of whom nothing can be made in this country. This is what constitutes fitness for a Colonial Office ; and so far from being astonished at the disgraceful scenes which are constantly taking place in the colonies every person capable of reflecting at all upon the matter would be astonished were he to find common abilities the holder of a colonial appointment of any value. Of Lord Charles Somerset the less that is said the better. In fact nothing is more wanted than the perusal of a Cape of Good Hope Almanack to satisfy the British public what sort of personage he is. Would it be believe that in a country of boundless extent with only a settlement here and there where the greatest enemies the Colonists have to contend with are the wild animals it could possible enter in to the head of any rarional being to introduce laws for the preservation of game. One would as soon expect to hear laws in Turkey for the preservation of the plague. Yet it so happens that a code which would do credit to Sir John Shelley himself guarding against the possible disinction of the game of Africa occupies a goodly space in the Cape Almanack. After such a specimen of wisdom all criticism on this personage would be thrown away.,
ID202,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,02,11,inform,London. Saturday February 7Hunt.–Since the arrival of Hunt on board the Justitia hulk at Woolwich he has been sent to work along with the rest of the convicts in Woolwich Warren. He will be conveyed on board the Countess of Harcourt convict-ship from Woolwich about three weeks hence to New South Wales his future destination.Petersburgh.–On the 6th of January the anniversary of the deliverance of Russia from the invasion of the French and twenty nations in alliance with them was commenced with the usual religious solemnity. The city was illuminated in the evening.–German paper.Prosperity of the Iron Trade.–At a quarterly meeting of the iron masters of Yorkshire and Derbyshire held on Wednesday the 21st ultimo atthe Tontine Inn in this town we are happy to learn that the important branch of trade fully keeps pace with the increasing prosperity of the country. The general orders for metal are represented to be equal to some of those brisk periods of demand which so frequently occurred during the late war when a much heavier price was readily realized han it now bears.–Sheffield Iris.,
ID203,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1824,02,28,inform,The Skelton Captain Dixon arrived in Leith Roads on Saturday the 21st inst from Van Dieman's Land and New South Wales with a general cargo.,
ID204,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1825,10,19,inform,Wesleyan Methodist Missions.–The twelfth anniversary of the Methodist Missionary Society for the Leeds District commenced in Brunswick Chapel on Monday forenoon. Mr James Musgrave was called to the chair. The Rev. Valentine Ward on the Secretaries to the Society read the report from which it appears that in Ireland the Society has 21 missionaries : in France Gibraltar and Malta eight missionaries and 230 members ; in Ceylon and Continental India 27 missionaries 511 members ; New South Wales Van Dieman's Land New Zealand and Tongataboo 10 missionaires 142 members ; Western and Southern Africa 16 missionaries 1109 members ; Nova Scotia and New Brunswick 18 missionaries 2134 members exclusive of upwards of 20 missionaries whom the Committee have resolved to send out as soon as possible. The regular hearers of the missionaries are two-thirds more than the members and there are 12000 children educated in the schools. The Report goes on to give every animating views of missionary success and concludes by recommending its interest to public support.,
ID205,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1827,03,03,inform,Commercial Intercourse Between The United States and the Bri- tish Colonies.The following is a copy of an important document received this morning at the North and South American Coffeehouse dated Washington 23d January viz. – A bill to regulate the Commercial Intercourse between the United States and the Colonies of Great Britain.Be it enacted by the Senate the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled that from and after the 30th day of September next the Ports of the United States shall be and remain closed against any and every vessel coming or arriving from any port or place in the British colonies or possessions hereinafter mentioned viz:–the British Possessions in the West Indies and on the Continent of South America the Bahama Islands the Islands called Buicos the Bermuda or Summer Islands the British possessions on the coast of Africa the colony of the Cape of Good Hope and the islands settlements and territories belonging thereto and dependent thereupon the islands of Mauritius and Ceylon and the several islands and territories belonging thereto and dependent on each respectively–the British Settlements in New Holland and the several islands and territories belonging thereto and dependent thereon–Lower Canada the provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia the islands of Newfoundland St John's Cape Breton and the dependencies of them or any other colony or possession under the dominion of Great Britain in the West Indies or on the Continent of America–and any vessel which shall have cleared from any port or place in the Colonies above described and afterwards taking in a cargo at any port or place in any of the colonies or possessons aforesaid or which having cleared from any port or place in the colonies or possessions aforesaid with a cargo shall afterwards in the same voyage have touched at or again cleared from any port or place shall nevertheless be deemed to come from a port or place in the colonies or possessions aforesaid within the meaning of this act ; and every vessel so excluded as aforesaid from the ports of the United States that shall enter or attempt to enter the same in violation of this Act shall with her tackle apparel and furniture together with her carg on board be forefeited to the United States.Sec. 2d. And be it further enacted that from and after the 30th day of September next the owner consignee or agent of every vessel owned wholly or in part by a subject or subjects of his Britannic Majesty which shall have been duly entered in any port of the United States and on board of which shall have been there laden for exportation any article or articles of the growth produce or manufacture of the United States other than provisions and sea stores necessary for the voyage shall before such vessel be cleared outward at the Custom-house give bond in a sum double the value of such articles with one or more sureties to the satisfaction of the Collector that the article or articles so laden on board such vessels for exportation shall be landed in some port or place other than any port or place in the above-mentioned colonies or possessions ; and any such vessel that shall sail or attempt to sail from any port of the United States without having given bond as aforesaid shall with her tackle apparel and furniture together with the article or articles aforesaid laden on board the same as aforesaid be forefeited to the United States ; provided always that nothing in this act contained shall be so constructed as to violate any provision of the Conventions to regulate the commerce the territories of the United States and of his Brittanic Majesty which were concluded respectively on the third of July 1815 and on the twentieth day of October 1818.Sec. 3. And be it farther enacted that the form of the bond aforesaid shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury and the same shall and may be discharged and otherwise by producing within one year after the date thereof a like certificate to that required by and under the regulations contained in the eighty-first section of the act to regu late the collection of duties on imports passed the 2d day or March 1799–that the articles of the growth produce and manufacture of the United States laden as aforesaid were unladen and landed comfortably to the provisions of this act ; or in the case of loss by sea by capture or other unavaoidable accident by the production of such other proofs as the nature of the case will admit according to the provisions of the eighty-first section of the act aforesaid.Sec. 4. And be it farther enacted that all penalties and forfeitures incurred by force of this act shall be sued for recovered distributed and accounted for and may be mitigated or remitted in the manner and according to the provisions of the revenue laws of the United States.Sec. 5. Provided nevertheless and be it farther enacted that this act shall not take effect nor go into operation if before the said 13th day of September next the President of the United States shall receive satisfactory evidence that the said Colonies and possessions aforesaid are open to the admission of vessels of the United States coming from the said United States; that neither such vessels nor their cargoes are subjected to any other or higher duties or charges than British vessels and their cargoes arriving from the United States in the said Colonies and possessions are subjected to; that the vessels of the United States may import into said Colonies and possessions from the United States any article or articles which a British vessel could by law import from the United States into the said Colonies or possessions; and that the vessels of the United States may export to any country whatever other than to the dominions or possesions of Great Britain any article or articles from the said Colonies or possessions which vessels of Great Britain may export therefrom ; and if the President of the United States shall receive such satisafactory evidence as aforesaid on or before the said 13th day of September next he is hereby authorised to issue his proclamation declaring that the said colonies or possessions are opened to the admission of the vessels of the United States on the conditions aforesaid and thereupon from the date of the said proclamation the ports of the United States shall be open to vessels of the United States and British vessels coming from the said colonies and provinces and also to the vessels of other nations coming therefrom which by Treaty or according to the Navigation Act of the United States may be entitled to bring merchandize from said colonies and possessions into the United States ; and British vessels arriving in the United States therefrom shall be subject neither on their tonnage nor on their cargoes to any other or higher duties or charges of any kind than vessels of the United States. From the date of the said proclamation of the President the act passed on the 1st day of March 1823 entitled An act to regulate the Commercial Intercourse between the United States and certain British ports; the act passed on the 15th day of May 1820 entitled An act supplementary to any act entitled An act concerning Navigation passed on the 18th of April 1818 shall be and are hereby declared severally to be repeated[?] ; and provided farther that if on or bebefore the said 13th day of September next the President of the United States shall receive satisfactory evidence that the Colonies and possessions aforesaid are opened to the admission of vessels of the United States coming from the said United States that neither such vessels nor their cargoes are subjected to any other or higher duties or charges than are levied or exacted on British vessels and their cargoes arriving from the United States in the said colonies or possessions and that the vessles of the United States may import into the said colonies and possessions from the United States any article or articles which a British vessel could by law import from the United States to issue his proclamation declaring that the ports of the United States are open to vesels of the United States and to British vessels coming directly form the said colonies and possessions and also to vessels of other nations coming therefrom which by treaty or according to the Navigation act of the United States may be entitled to bring merchandize from the said colonies and possessions into the United States and that British vessels arriving in the ports of the United States from the Colonies or possessions aforesaid shall not after the date of the proclamation last mentioned be subjected either on their tonnage or their cargoes to any other or higher duties or charges of any kind than are levied on vessels of the United States and their cargoes of similar merchandize imported from the same colonies and possessions ; and from and after the date of such proclamation the first and second reactions of this act shall be suspended.This Bill was wtice read and commited to the committee of the whole on the State of the Union.,
ID206,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1828,04,02,inform,New South Wales.–As a proof of the increasing trade betwixt Leith and New South Wales it may be mentioned that the Australian Company have chartered a fine new brig the Mary of Alloa about 300 tons register in addition to their regular traders which vessel sailed from the Road on Saturday afternoon at three o'clock for that colony with a full general cargo and a number of passengers. Another vessel the Margaret a brig also about 300 tons is now loading for the same place chartered by a merchant in Leith.,
ID207,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1828,05,07,entertain,Love in a Prison.–We have all heard that Love rules the court the camp the grove but we have rarely heard that the little god delighted to dwell in prisoned solitude ; true it is and of verity nevertheless that he seems if not to have fixed his dwelling in at least to be a very constant visitor of our jail. It is not long since a couple who had imbided the tender passion were linked in the bonds of matrimony in it ; and a like consumnation most devoutly to be wished for by another pair of inmates would ere now have taken place did not envious bolts and bars intervene for a petition has been presented by two delinquents of different sexes both under sentence of transportation to the Magistrates praying that they may be allowed to marry before setting out for New South Wales. The fond pair never saw each other till inclosed in the same vehicle on their way to stand trial at last Perth Circuit for capital offences ; yet in this situation love–omnipotent love–took the captives captive and rendered them in its enjoyment even in their perilous plight o'er a' the ills o' life victorious. But alas! the course of true love never did run smooth; and no less a personage than the Secretary of State for the Home Department has in this case crossed the path of the hapless couple and doomed them to single blessedness for many a year by ordering the fair penitent to be removed to Penitentiary at Millbank for seven years instead of transportation for fourteen ; leaving the forlorn lover to seek consolation in the charms of some sterling or currency damsel in the land of promise to which he must now wend his solitary way.–Fife Hld.,
ID208,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,Edinburgh,1828,06,25,inform,House of Commons.–June 19.The Speaker took the Chair at a few minutes before four o'clock and was shortly afterwards summoned by the Deputy Usher of the Black Rod to attend the House of Lords.The Speaker stated on his return that the Royal Assent had been given by Commission to several public and private bills.Mr C. Dundas presented a petition from Newbury in the county of Berks praying for the abolition of slavery in the West Indies.Mr Planta moved for a new writ for the election of a member to serve in Parliament in the room of Lord Leveson Gower who had accepted the office of Chief Secretary for Ireland.–Ordered.Ale-House Licensing Bill.On the motion of Mr Estcourt the house resolved itself into a committee on this bill.On the clause that no brewer who should himself supply public houses with beer should be allowed to act or assist as a Magistrate at any meeting or session for the granting of licensesMr Bernal moved that this clause be struck out altogether.Mr R. Gordon supported the clause.Mr Monck thought this the most valuable clause in the bill and that it was no infringemnt but a salutary interference with the jurisdiction of borough magistrates.Strangers were ordered to withdraw and the committee divided when there were–Ayes 46–Noes 53– Majority against the clause 7.Several amendments verbal and otherwise were then agreed to amongst which was the omission of the words Cinque Ports thus excluding that class of places from the operation of the bill. On the clause being proposed relative to the hours during which public houses should be kept open on Sundays.Mr Estcourt said the original clause was to the effect that public-houses should be closed during the hours of morning and afternoon's divine service but he thought it would be better not to permit publicans to allow drinking or tippling on their premises till after the usual hour of the conclusion of morning service (one o'clock.)After a conversation in which several hon. members participated the clause was agreed to.Several other clauses having been then read and agreed to the house resumed ; the report was brought up ordered to be taken into further consideration on Monday next and printed.The Usury Laws.Mr P. Thompson moved the second reading of the usury laws amendment bill.Mr Davenport said he should oppose the bill as he considered it to be highly injurious both to the landed and commercial interests. The hon. members moved an amendment that the bill be read a second time that day three months.The question on th amendment having been putThe Chancellor of the Exchequer suggested the propriety of postponing this bill until the next session of parliament. He made this suggestion from no unfriendly feeling towards the bill but merely because this was not he conceived the most convenient time to consider it. The subject ought to be fully considered with a view to get rid of evils that existed without interfering with long-continued prejudices. If the discussion were postponed he would give the subject the best attention in his (hear.)Mr Heathcote approved of the suggestion of the right hon. gentleman and wished the discussion on the question to be postponed till the next session of parliament.Mr L. Foster thought that between the total repeal or the continued existence of the Usury Laws in their present shape a middle course might be steered. Of the bill before the house he thought that under the guise of a simple enactment it covered one of the greatest illusion ever held forth to Parliament or the country for he was convinced that it would effect as complete and as practicable a repeal of the usury laws as could be proposed. It became necessary therefore to consider the probable operation of that repeal upon all the great interest of the country. The bill might give relief to few but would bring injury to many.Lord Palmerston thought the house indebted to the hon. member for Dover for bringing in the bill. It might be possible to form a bill better than that of the hon. member but his bill was better than the present law and as such he should vote for it.The gallery was then cleared and the house divided when there appeared for the second reading–Ayes 52; Noes 40 : majority in favour of the second reading 12.Voters' Registration Bill.Lord Nugent moved the second reading of the voters' registration bill and said that his object in carrying it through the present stage was that the bill might be committed pro forma for the purpose of having certain amendment introduced into it. It would then be printed with its amendments in order that the house and the country might have the opportunity of considering its details between this and the next session of Parliament.Sir R. Wilson moved as an amendment that the bill might be read a second time that day six months.Mr H. Gurney seconded the amendment.The question was then put on the amendment which was agreed to and the bill was ordered to be read a second time this day six months.Salmon Fisheries Preservation Bill.On the motion of the Chancellor of Exche- quer the house resolved itself into a committee on the salmon fisheries preservation bill.Mr Ferguson proposed the insertion of a clause exempting from the operation of the bill the salmon fisheries in the River and Bay of Thurso in the county of Caithness which are the exclusive property of Sir John Sinclair.After some conversation the gallery was cleared and the committee divided when the clause was lost.The bill having passed through the committee the report was ordered to be received this day.The other orders were then disposed of and the house adjourned at half-past two o'clock.FridayJune 20.Sir G. Murray took the oaths and his seat on his re-election for the county of Perth.A number of petitions were presented against the continuance of Negreo Slavery.Irish Currency.Sir G. Hill presented a petition from the Chamber of Commerce of the city of Londonderry praying that the bill for amending the laws relating to Banks in Ireland might not be allowed to make further progress for the present. The petition was laid on the table.Sir A. Chichester presented a petition from Belfast praying a reduction of the duty on coals in Ireland which was laid upon the table.Scotch Gaols' Bill.The Lord Advocate in moving that this bill be read a second time and printed observed that it was not his intention to press it further during the present Session. No man could however deny that the object of the Bill was of great importance and he proposed therefore to have its provisions made generally known throughout the country in order that it might be again presented to the house in as perfect a shape as possible.The bill was then read a second time and ordered to be printed.Committee of Supply.In the committee of supply a number of grants of minor importance were agreed to.Sir H. Hardinge said he had another resolution to propose but it was in which he expected that a reduction would be made next year. It was that a sum of L283199 8s 1d be granted for the expenses of the disembodied[?] militia of the united kingdom.Mr Spring Rice said that within the last twelve years there had been two millions and a half expended on this body and that the subject was one which few gentlemen took the trouble to look at. He begged to say a word upon the Irish militia. There the whole of the staff which was larger than that of England was without a private man. Nothing could a more outrageous job than that of the milita in Ireland. The colonels kept the whole patronage of the regiment and kept up the bands for the amusemen of themselves and friends. The militia might have been of service at one time in Ireland ; but since that time the present effective police had been established and quite superseded it. He trusted Ministers would not suffer this to remain if they really wished to be economical and curtail if not abolish it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer begged to assure his hon. friend that he wanted no prompting to make any economical reduction. When however a plan for the reduction of the staff was ready and it was in contemplation it would be laid before Parliament and he should then be the friend of the definite and limited powers to which he had alluded.Mr Hume said the militia had been defended as though the country were in hourly danger of invasion –as if the country could be taken by surprise. If that were so he would gladly learn of what use were the spies who cost us L450000 a-year. We had ambassadors–they were very little better than spies–at an expense of L45000a-year ; and if their cautious observance were not sufficient to save the country from sudden invasion he knew no better means and he certainly knew no other advantage which ambassadors and consuls could be of.New South Wales Bill–Committee.On the order of the day having been read for the house resolving itself into committee on the New South Wales bill.Mr Huskisson moved that the Speaker do leave the chair.Sir J. Mackintosh said the object of his present motion of which he had previously given notice was to propose two instruction to the committee on the bill which the right hon. gentleman (Mr Huskisson) had introduced–first to the effect that the committee should recommend the introduction of a clause for the establishment of a trial by jury in New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land; and secondly that it should recommend that a clause be introduced providing for the election of one-third of the Legislative Council from among persons enjoying an income of L100 a year and having been free inhabitants of the colonies for the space[?] of three years. The best local authories in favour of his proposition. Among these he might mention the names of Governor Hunter Governor Bligh Mr Bent the Judge Advocate Governor Macquarrie and his successor Sir Thomas Brisbane who had gone out to the colony prejudiced against the introduction into it of these institutions ; but after two years careful investigation of the subject wrote home in Oct. 1825 stating that there was now no longer any doubt about its perfect ripeness for them.–(Hear hear.)– The partial introduction of English institutions into immediate practise was the only pledge of a real intention on the part of government to introduce them more completely in the end. The right hon. gent. concluded by moving that instruction be given to the committee to recommend the introduction of Trial by Jury into the colony and to allow the inhabitants a voice in the legislative councils.Mr Huskisson said in the bill which he had introduced it was intended to extend the privilege to the government of the country of granting trial by jury in all civil cases. His right hon. friend would find if he examined that the foundation would be laid of granting the inhabitants of that colony a share in managing their own concerns. At present the legislature proposed by way of a first step to appoint a legislative committee for the purpose of watching and controuling every measure of the state. All trials should be public under the inspection of a free press and a population jealous of their rights. They should now be prepared in the course of a few years for the regular introduction of a legislative assembly ; not had he any fears when such a change should take place that it would lead to any political convulsion.Mr Hume had every reason to believe that if instead of inflicting a military governemtn they would introduce a portion of representation and the privileges of British subjects into New South Wales it would be the most flourishing of the colonies.Mr Horace Twiss said the knowledge of one fact might obviate the necessity for one at least of the right hon. gent.'s propsitions namely that the governor of the colony had the power of extending to the colonists the right of trial by jury if he should deem it expedient.Sir James Mackintosh here intimated that he should not press his amendments. They were accordingly negatived.The house then resolved itself into the Committee when several verbal amendments were proposed and agreed to.The bill then went through the committee and the report with the amendments was ordered to be brought up on Monday.The other orders of the day were then disposed of and the house adjourned at half-past two o'clock.,
ID209,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1828,08,09,inform,Bervic.–There has been raised this season on the high lands of the farm of Hallgreen belonging to Mr Blair a few acres of Rib-grass a native plant of New South Wales. It was imported to this country two years ago by a man who had served his time in Van Dieman's Land. Its[?] favourite soil seems to be high land or muir country and is so rapid in growth that it appears not only to choke but to extirpate[?] every weed with which it comes in contact. It is said to be the best plant in the world both for feeding cattle and for producing mik from cows of the best and richest quality. Were the propiertors and tenants of the Highland country to follow the enterprising conduct of Mr Blair we would soon see their hills covering with a truly useful plant instead of the useless heath with at present even at best only adorns them.,
ID210,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1828,12,24,inform,A vessel of 800 tons burden has been taken up by government for the conveyance of the settlers to Oyster Harbour New South Wales and the command given to Lieut. Wm. Geary.,
ID211,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1829,05,20,inform,Australia.–We understand the celebrated navigator Captain Parry has been appointed the Director of the Australian Agricultural Company. He proceeds to that colony immediately ; the salary is stated to be very handsome.,
ID212,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1829,06,10,inform,House of Commons.–June 4Sir J. Mackintosh presented a petition from Mr Charles Buck complaining that managers of theatres were allowed to perform dramatic pieces without the knowledge or leave of the writer and without any profit to him. The hon. member said that Lord Byron and Mr Millman had made similar complaints and that every person who had given that subject consideration admitted that literary property was not sufficiently protected in this country and that the decline of dramatic writing was to be attributed to the state of the law.Mr G. Lamb thought it a very serious grievance that if a man wrote a tragedy it might be taken by any manager and performed on the stage and the writer brought to the miserable condition of a damned author nolens volenns. (A laugh.) The decline of dramatic writing in this country was to be ascribed to the unprofitable nature of that description of writing as compared with other branches of literature ; and it would be very desirable if a dramatic author had power to sell his play like any other description of property and that no manager should perform it without paying the writer which was the system in France.The petition was ordered to be printed.Birmingham Petition.Mr Brougham rose to present a petition from a very respectable body. It had been agreed to at a numerous meeting of manufacturers artisans and other inhabitants of Birmingham and was signed by 8000 persons without solicitation. they contended that the distress which now prevailed not only had reference to that poorer classes of society but spread itself over the whole system of society. This distress the petitioners ascribed to the tampering that had taken place with the currency. Their opinion was that too much stress was laid upon the panic which had taken place in 1825 ; for though it was true that a great number of failures had taken place among the bankers yet it was no less true that of about 70 bankers who had failed as many as 80[?] had subsequently paid 20s in the pound. If such were the case he was very glad to hear it. The opinion of the petitioners rather was that the present distress arose from the speculations and over-trading which had taken place ; and that such might have been the case topitally[?] there could be no manner of doubt That a great deal of the distress of the nation had arisen from the depreciation of the currency by which people were now paying taxes at a rate that had never been intended when they were originally imposed was extremely likely ; but whether it operated to the extent that the petitioners described was another question. In the year 1819 he had been one of those who had resisted the imposition of new taxes because he thought that that was the very worst time that Ministers could have chosen for such an object. His opinion however had been over-ruled and the taxes had been increased. That the effect of this must be to cripple the industry of the country no man could doubt ; and what he wished was to see a remedy for t ; but the misfortune was that after making every possible retrenchment–by reducing salaries and dealing in the best possible way with all the payments which the nation had to make–the Dead Weight would still remain round the neck of the country and press it down to the effectual injury of its best interests. How were they to get over the 800 millions of debt and the 30 or 40 millions of interest annually payable thereon? In the latter part of the petition he entirely agreed and hoped that every thing would be done to give the people as great relief from the pressure of the taxes as might be consistent with a due regard to the public credit and the service of the State ; and so far from treating this remedy lightly the more he thought that the petitioners were wrong in their observations on the tampering of the currency the more he was inclined to listen to that part of the petition which appeared to him to be founded on truth.Mr Bennett was of opinion that the forced restoration of a metallic currency was one of the principal causes of the present distress. The taxes were now paid in money and it now required twice the produce to pay them which it did before the year 1819. That was nothing less than a robbery but how it was to be remedied he really was at a loss to know. He would never break faith with the public creditor and the only means to pay off our public debt would be to impose an income tax. If the public debt were once removed then free trade could take place in every branch of trade but not till then. Such was the opinion of his late friend Mr Ricardo and sooner or later he thought some such measure would be resorted to.Mr Alderman Waitham observed that it was strange that while the public distress was admitted to be extreme no effort was made to reduce the public expenditure. He was ready to prove that the export trade of the country had fallen off to the amount of from nearly nine to thirteen millions although he knew that in saying this he was encountering serious adversaries. He did not under-rate our export trade ; it was valuable but for a period of thirty-one years it had fallen off at the rate of six millions per annum ; and this could be shewn from Parliamentary documents. With respect to the petition now before the house he mainly agreed with its statements while at the same time he could never consent to any thing like a breach of faith with the public creditor.Mr W. Whitmore heard with astonishment that our foreign trade had greatly diminished the reverse being so notoriously the fact. Since 1814 there was certainly a fall in the value of our manufactures but so there was in the raw material and the vast increase of machinery should also be taken into account. It was said that our exports had declined but facts would prove decidedly the reverse. From 1790 to 1799 the exports were L17000000 ; from 1800 to 1809 L26000000; from 1810 to 1819 L36000000 ; from 1821 to 1826 L45000000 ; in 1827 L51000000 ; and in 1828 the amounts of exports rose to L52000000– So much for the alleged decrease of our export trade as stated by the worthy Alderman (hear hear hear.) In 1819[?] the currency was in the greatest state of depreciation ; but he begged pardon for having said so much and he was induced to offer a word in order to counteract the danger which might arise if the statements of the worthy Alderman remained unanswered.Mr Sec. Peel observed that whenever any change however calculated to be ultimately beneficial was made in the system of our currency it must be attended in the first instance with considerable inconveniences. The more he considered the subject the more was he convinced that the best interests of the nation required that we should strictly adhere to the law of our currency now established. (Hear hear.) He hoped he should never see the time when the restrictions on cash payments should be renewed. When however the petitioners declared it to be expedient to increase the amount of our currency by an issue of paper he would ask them what they would in that case do with the Exchanges? If the Exchanges fell the gold would go out of the country. What would they do? They must renew the restriction on cash payments by the Bank. It was not any change in the value of the currency but the prosperity of Manchester that had occasioned the depression in Spitalfields. In 1820 the number of factories in Manchester were fifty-four and they were assessed at the annual value of L16816 ; in 1823 they were 56 assessed at L18293 ; in 1826 when the small notes bill passed the numbers were 72 assessed at L24034 ; in 1828 the year before the small notes bill took effect the numbers were 73 and they were assessed at L25245. The hon. gentleman opposite had said that no fresh capital had been employed in this trade but that persons would work at a loss rather than let their machines stand idle. But if this were the case it would not account for the erection of 12 new factories the establishment of which was irreconcileable with the idea of general stagnation. With respect to the silk trade in Manchester in 1823 there were 2500 looms and in 1828 there were 8000 ; and there were between 3 and 4000 looms working manufactured articles of silk mixed with cotton. He had had a letter from Manchester dated 1st of June upon which he could rely and it stated that all the silk weavers were or might be in active emply. For the last ten years at Manchester machinery had improved in powers of production in the ratio of 10 per cent per annum. Few persons had attributed enough to the importation of labourers from Ireland. A greater number of Irish labourers in the manufacturing districts were out of emply than people could imagine and the Magistrates relieved them rather than pass them to their parishes reflecting that as they had contributed to the prosperity ot the places they had a right to relief when in distress. Where the passage was so low and this country possessed the advantage of a legal provision for the poor it was impossible to check the influx of Irish labourers and this fact would suggest important alterations in the state of the law. (Hear hear.) He felt convinced that any alterations with respect to the values of the currency would be attended with the greatest evils to every class.Mr W. Horton observed that some honourable gentleman considered the distress of our artisans and manufacturers to arise from the state of the currency ; but he (Mr Horton) was at a loss to see how the redundant labour at Shipley could have been affected by the change of the currency. Another class were the antipodes of these–they imputed our distress to the corn laws. But it was idle to talk of altering the corn laws; we should look to practical remedies. As long as a redundancy of labour existed in England which was aggravated by the condition of the Irish who flocked to England and operated a still further prejudice to the labouring class of this country the distress would continue. The remedy which he proposed for the evil he had pointed out was emigration in the manner proposed in the report of a committee of which he had the honour to be the chairman by parishes advancing a sum of money to locate pauper labourers in our North American colonies. The right hon. gentleman then read opinions in approbation of his plan from Mr Tooke Mr Malthus Colonel Torrens and others and observed that he had the opinion of the late Mr Ricardo to the same effect in a lette which had been published. He then entered into a calculation to show the saving to parishes by this plan and he challenged any member of the house the show the fallacy of the calculations.– There was however an answer so easy that it was constantly made– The vacuum would be filled up immediately. This was a delicate subject to touch upon for he knew not how the vacuum could be filled up but by the introduction of young gentlemen and ladies. (A laugh.) But was it supposed that fifty labourers would be replaced immediately by fifty children? Or did these objectors suppose that labourers would be brought from Russia or elsewhere ? The right honourable gentleman then adverted to the remarks in Mr Sadler's work wherein it was stated that is appeared from the official documents that the mor tality amongst the emigrants to North America had been in the unprecedented proportion of 4 in 14 whereas in Wales the proportion was 1 in 69 and in England 1 in 57. This he would assert was an incorrect statement. So far from the proportion being 1 in 14 it was only 1 in 40 the same proportion which existed in Carlisle the healthiest place in England. The emigrants it should be recollected carried out children and the mortality amongst children was in the proportion of 1 in 12 and in London much greater ; for it had been ascertained that out of 1000 infants amongst the poor only 542 survived the period of nursing. The right hon. gentleman concluded with reading his last resolution– That it is expedient that such measures should be adopted in the next Session of Parliament as may furnish the most safe and effectual means of producing the desird improvement by a judicious application of both these principles and at the same time under conditions which will prevent the probability of a recurrence of similar evils and also effect a material saving of the national income instead of producing an increased charge thereon.Mr Huskisson contended that colonization ought to be encouraged. Had it not been for emigration this country could never have reached its present state of importance and prosperity nor would our language have been extended to the United States and been adopted in more distant countries. If there were one circumstance more striking than another it was the prodigious increase of consumption a proof of the growing wealth and resources of the country. In the year 1814 the exchange in trade was against us ; now it was in our favour. This country would carry on its great affairs with as small a portion of metallic currency as possible but let them guard against a system which had led to depreciation of the currency and the panic which was felt in 1825. He had heard somewhere a metaphor respecting paper currency. Like a skyrocket it rose with splendour but lost its brightness and when its fire was extinguished it fell in darkness like the shaft of the rocket upon the heads of those who had raised it.Mr Secretary Peel said in consequence of the course of policy which he had deemed it advisable to adopt in the previous Session a series of unfounded calumnies had been levelled at him which however he had despised too much to condescend to notice. But there was one which as it reflected on his public and official character he would with permission of the house allude to on that occasion. The report to which he alluded was that he had used his influence as Secretary of State to procure an enormous grant of land for a relative of his. (Hear hear hear.) In consequence of seeing this report in the public newspapers he had requested his right honourable friend to move in that house for the production of certain papers calculted to explain the whole matter. Those papers had in consequence been produced and were now printed ; he trusted however that the house would excuse him for again alluding to the subject. (Hear hear hear.) He hoped that the consequence of those papers being printed would have been that some member would have asked some questions on the subject ; but though this was not the case he had received a communication which made him think that some one out of doors had been imposed upon by the calumny though no member of that house had been so deceived (cheering.) He begged in the first place to state most distinctly that he had procured no grant of land for any brother of his (hear) A gentleman whose name was the same as his and who was his second cousin had had a grant made him by his right hon. friend ; but in that grant he begged to state to the house upon his word of honour as a gentleman he had had no participation whatever (hear.) With respect to the settlement on the Swan River he was ashamed to say that he had neither heard nor knew of it till he received a letter from his cousin announcing to him that he had abandoned the idea of going to New South Wales ; and that from the circumstances of Mr Twiss informing him that government would be disposed to afford assistance to any settlers going to the Swan River he and three other gentlemen had been induced to send in a proposal to that effect. With respect to the other calumnies which had been promulgated against him they rather went to private matters and he had therefore not condescended to notice them ; but as this one had reference to the public department in which he officiated he had thought it so far a public concern as to venture to ask the attention of the house while he trespassed on it to disclaim any participation in the grant that had been made (hear.)Sir Geo. Murray–The house would probably think after the statement of his right honourable friend that it would be unnecessary for him to rise to address them (hear.) He was satisfied that the house knew that his right hon. friend was incapable of proposing anything that would come under the designation of what was vulgarly called a job (hear.)Adjournment.Mr Secretary Peel gave notice that he should tomorrow move the adjournment of the house to that day week. The right hon. gentleman at the same time presented a petition from the Apothecaries Company of London in favour as we understood of the bill regarding dissection.Mr Wilmot Horton rose to propose the resolutions of wich he had given notic relative to the state of the labouring poor.The firt resolution having been put from the chairThe Chancellor of the Exchequer moved as an amendment that the order of the day be now read.Mr Bennett opposed the resolutions.The amendement was agreed to without a division.Mr Labouchere postponed until to-morrow his motion respecting Canada.Slave Trade.Mr Otway Cave moved the following resolutions:Resolved 1st. That no human legislature has any lawful power to abridge or destroy the natural rights of life and liberty unless the owner shall himself commit some criminal act that amounts to a forfeiture.2d That although neither the government nor the legislature of the county have arrogated to themselves the power of destroying the natural rights of innocent British subjects or of delegating any such power to other authorities it is a notorious fact that in many British Colonies lying remote from the immediate observation of the Government innocent British born subjects are from the time of their birth robbed of their natural rights and converted into slaves.3. That it is the especial duty of this House as the Representatives of the people to take effectual measures for protecting all British subjects that shall be born henceforward in the West Indian Colonies from similar violations of their natural inherent and paramount rights as human beings.The motion being seconded by Mr LumleyMr W. Smith said he could not give his support to these resolutions because they were connected with a question of too much importance to be agitated in such a manner and at such a period of the Session.Mr Huskisson was of opinion that resolutions of such a description as those brought forward by the hon. member ought to be met by a direct negative.Strangers were then ordered to withdraw. The resolutions were declared to be negatived without a division.The other orders of the day were then disposed of and the house adjourned at half-past one o'clock.,
ID213,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1829,07,25,inform,Swan River.–The fine ship Gilmore purchased by Mr T. Peel brother to the Secretary of State for the Home Department proceeded down the river on Saturday on her voyage to Swan River. The Gilmore quitted the St Catherine Docks in the course of Friday having on board an excellent assortment of every requisite which may be required to form the new settlement. Mr Thomas Peel has had the Gilmore which is of 500 tons burthen under his own inspection as well as the selection of the agricultural and other implements to convey to the Swan River. There were many passengers on board. Mr Peel and his family it is understood will join the vessel at Plymouth. In the vessel there are also going out other settlers. The Hooghly another ship of 500 tons burthen chartered by the same individual is not yet quite ready for her voyage. Among the valuables sent out to Swan River are some fine race-horses intended for breeding in the settlement from whence India will be supplied should the settlement answer.–Sunday Times.,
ID214,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1829,08,19,inform,London Saturday August 15 1829The King.–We are happy to learn from a private source of unquestionable authenticity that the King has seldom if ever in his whole life enjoyed better health than at the present moment. From the same quarter we have received a confirmation of what we mentioned some time back that according to the present arrangements of the Court it is certainly his Majesty's intetion to visit Brighton before the expiration of the year.–Brighton Gazette.The Revenne.–Ever since the beginning of the quarter symptoms of progressive improvement have manifested themselves in the revenue. Of late they have assumed a more decided and promising character and if the seven weeks that remain prove as productive as the first month has been not only will thre be no falling off at the close but a considerable increase may confidently be anticipated. We understand that the general return of duties paid at Custom-house in the port of London for the month o July last amounts to one million one hundred and ten thousand pounds. The returns from the out-ports have not all yet been received but on a fair calculation it is supposed that they will amount to above one million sterling.–Courier.It is certainly true that Laurent made an offer of L8000 a year for Covent Garden ; but when asked to put his offer into writing he withdrew and nothing more has been heard of it.–Court Journal.The new musical entertainment forthcoming at the English Opera House to be called The Spring Lock is founded upon one of the fictions of an early Italian novelist (Lasca) the incidents of which almost include the romatic and eventful interest of the Arabian Nights' Entertainments. Peake is the accredited author–Keeley is to be the hero and Wood the principal vocalist ; G. H. Rodwell is the composer.It is stated in a recent French paper that during the last eight months not fewer than twenty political and literary journals have been started in the French provinces.It is stated in a French newspaper than an inhabitant of Lyon grafted upon the same stem red and white grapes and peaches and apricots which all flowered at the same time and gave ripe fruit with a few days of each other.A carriage containing 60 persons was this day seen to traverse Paris. It was drawn by six horses merely by way of trial. This carriage and several similat ones are building in the square of St Salpier. They are to run between Paris and Lyons.–Paris Paper.Steam Navigation.–Information has reached the India House that the East India Company's steam vessel Enterprise will leave Bombay on the 15th of November next for Suez where she may be expected to arrive early in December. Another steam-vessel is to leave Bombay for the same destination in January next. A communication by steam between this country and the Mediterrarean has already been opened and might we suppose be easily extended to Egpyt. The expense of such a speculation would probably be amply compensated by the profit of conveying by so desirable a route passengers to and from the East Indies.His Majesy the King of Prussia has honoured Mr by presenting him with a splendid gold snuffbox as a token of his Majesty's approbation of Belshazzar's Feast. the Dalage.&c. Swan River.–That beautiful ship the Gilmour sailed on Monday evening for the Swan River. She has upwards of 200 passengers on board the whole of whom are highly respectable and many of them are in opulent circumstances. When Mr Peel came alongside (accompanied by Mr Soltau) just before the ship got under weigh the passengers and crew gave him three cheers and his reception altogether was of the most gratifying description. The property on board the Gilmore alone amounts to the more than L60000. We understand also that the Minstrel will call at this port in about a fortnight to take out other settlers on account of Mr Peel. We are informed that Government have increased Mr Peel's grant of land from 350000 to 1000000 acres.–Plymouth Journal.Gurney's Steam Carriage.–Yesterday afternoon Mr Gurney's steam carriage was exhibited at the request of the Duke of Wellington in the Houslow Barrack yard before his Grave the Ladies Percy Dance and Murray ; Lords Fitzroy Somerset Rosslyn and Thomas Cecil ; Lieut. General Sir W. Gordon QuarterMaster General ; Sir George Murray Sir Charles Dance and a large number of military and scientific gentlemen. His Grace Sir W. Gordon the Ladies Percy &c. had a carriage attacked and rode round the yard with the greatest pleasure and satisfaction. Afterwards a waggon was fastened to the steam carriage containing 27 soldiers besides Mr Gurney and two or three men on the engine and though the road was very disadvantageous being a rough loose sand and gravel it drew them round without the least diminuition of its speed between nine and ten miles an hour. In these experiments Mr Gurney applied his steam generally but to one wheel in order to give the company full proof of the power and practicability of the invention. Having satisfied them as to this and as to its manageability by a variety of involutions and evolutions he gave them a specimen of its speed and drove seven or eight times round at the rate of 16 or 17 miles an hour. It is difficult to say whether the company was more pleased or surprised at these unequivocal proofs of Mr Gurney's success. The Duke of Wellington observed that it was scarcely possible to calculate the benefits we should derive from the introduction of such an invention as this.The French papers of Tuesday state that the Emperor Nicholas was preparing to make a new levy at the rate of 4 upon every 500 male individuals which would give about 160000 fresh soldiers. He is said however to have deferred promulgating the ukase until he should have ascertained that the Porte had definitely rejected the terms of peace which he had proposed. On the other hand we are told that the Sultan has rejected those terms and that notwithstanding the successes gained by the Russians he was resolved to run all the chances of a desperate struggle rather than submit to conditions which he deemed insulting.The English Bench.–There are two vacancies at present on the judicial Bench ;–one occasioned by the death of Mr Baron Hullock ; the other by the more recent decease of Mr Charles Warren Chief Justice of Chester who expired at his house in Bedford Square on Wednesday afternoon in the 66th year of his age. Mr Campbell is spoken of as the successor of the former ; and the choise we supposem will be generally deemed to be a proper one. With respect to the Chief Justiceship of Chester an evening paer the Sun very properly recalls to public recollection the fact that the Commissioners on the Common Law had recommended in their report the abolition of the Welsh judgeships altogether; and adds an opinion in which we perfectly coincide tht the present seems a fair opportunity for carrying the recommendation into effect. Indeed in our mind every opportunity is a fair one for reducing public expences when public burdens are oppressive.Platina Coin.–We have seen a specimen of the new Russian platina coinage. The coin is about the size of a shilling but heavier than a sovereign and of three roubles value. On one side are the Russian eagle and imperial arms; on the other the value of the coin and date–Globe.Ugly Wives Fittest for Poets.–The spouses of the living British poets are well known to be among the plainest of the sect as Mr Slinslop would say.–is wedded to the head of a gorgon – – is not much better off – – has eloped from his mate. We might run through the whole catalogue without discovering a handsome woman yet none have exceleed these writers in descriptions of female beauty. The truth is that the contemplation of a bottle or peaked nose a wide mouth goggle eyes and a spare body causes an author to set out with more enthusiasm in search of the ideal of womanly perfections and affords the widest scope to the imagination. Nothing impedes the fancy more domestic intercourse with a celestial shape and divine face ; in which case a fatal uxoriousness supersedes the poet's diligence and he ceases impotently to describe what he can well enjoy. Milton's Eve was not copied from Mrs Milton grilling his dinner at the kitchen fire–but from some unattainable damsel of his fancy. Plurality of women is only allowed to a poet– one lawful plain household wife–and as many airy mistresses as he can embody.,
ID215,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1829,11,04,inform,Swan River.–The ship Warrior Stone commander bound to Swan River Sydney and the East Indies sailed for her destination on Friday from Portsmouth with prospects of favourable weather in her progress down the Channel. The Warrior is a fine vessel of about 700 tons burden and carried out upwards of 250 passengers to the new settlement. Several of the passengers are persons of independent fortune who have embarked considerable property in the speculation ; and and two ofthem named Byrne and Molloy paid the enormous sum of L1000 for the best accommodation the vessel could afford their families and suite. Six pianos are on board the Warrior and a proportionate number of fair and accomplished vocalists and musicians of course accompany the instruments to their destination. The Warrior has also on board fifty dogs of the choicest breed several pens of sheep considerable number of swine two milch cows and three valuable horses ; but as tempestuous weather may be anticipated on the vessel reaching the Bay of Biscay apprehensions are entertained that a portion of the live cargo must be consigned to the ocean before the termination of the voyage. It is calculated that from the advantageous arrangements entered into by the commander and a gentleman named Semple who has chartered the Warrior and gone out in her they will clear the enormous sum of L10000 by the voyage.,
ID367,Glasgow Herald,Glasgow,Scotland,United Kingdom,1822,01,28,inform,Extract of a letter from an Englishman dated Lima Septemper 10 1821Lima is what an Englishman would call a dirty colonial town; 6000 inhabitants is the outside of its population; the whites are about 1200 Europeans and not as many born in the country; the rest are blacks and mulattoes. Of the mulattoes there are eight various shades. I never saw such a wretched herd as Lima incloses; more poverty and misery than in any town of the size in the world.–There are some few splendid houses but the rest so disgustingly filthy that you cannot go into them without being covered with dust and vermin. The streets as in all American towns run at right angles; a powerful stream of water in each; the town is capable of great improvement. The climate must be bad for the whole population look as if turned out of the hospitals for a day's air; a half-born race–melancholy in their faces. On the whole coast of Peru we made the same observation; the ague very general with fever–their habits and manner of living increase the evil; thin clothing and vegetable diet–nights very cold –I sleep under a heavy blanket and could bear another; a thick fog prevents the sun from coming out in winter; the heat however is not excessive during summer; on the whole not an oppressive climate if the people had any idea of living in a rational way. Very few families cook at home℃they buy their greasy messes boiled in the streets in pulperias and in the squares; not six families in Lima that have wine on their tables; they drink brandy at all hours and excuse themselves for not having any thing that is expensive by saying it gives the ague; the same person who denies himself a glass of wine will lay twenty doubloons on a card in the evening. Their money goes in gambling debauchery and dress; every woman high and low has her price; a lady takes no offence at her frailty being exposed; she tells you she is quite at good as her neighbours and needs be no better. The Spanish nation and Government are the cause of all the degradation of South America; every Viceroy from Pizarro to Pezuela was a plunderer a teacher of immorality in words and deeds. The miserable state of this people seems incredible–one must see to believe it; scarcely a young lady can read or write or use a needle; few houses that the Devil has not appeared in; and a devout lady is accompanied in her carriage by the Virgin Mary. Thus is ignorance imposed upon by knaves; as to priestcraft it reigns here in all its glory; a third part of Lima is covered with churches some of them very splendid. The whole trade of this part of Peru depends on the single mine of the mountain of Pasco for returns; if this is worked to advantage it will produce six millions of dollars; but if the country is disturbed by war not a dollar will they have. The exports of Peru in ordinary times were five millions of dollars in pecie and one million inproduce. Mininng may be carried to any extent it is true; but this requires tranquillity and good government. People in Europe have the most erroneous ideas or Peru; every traveller and historian who has written or talked about it ought to be made to stand in the pillory for a liar.Arica the second port of Peru and the great outlet to Upper Peru is a wretched village of hovels covered with mud–about 400 Mulattoes and Indians–placed on a sand bank–the people all in the ague–not a boat or ship of any sort. The harbour-master came off on bulsa (two bladders lashed together) paddled by an Indian. We could not get a basket of fruit or vegetablse for money. Their cultuvation was three leagues off but they were too lazy to fetch any thing though a seventy-four and a frigate lay-to twnety hours offering them any price for their tropical fruits.I hire a small room for 12 dollars a month and sleep on the ground; borrowed a chair and bought some crockery. No such thing as a tavern; never was. Letters of no use; no one asks me to his house. I go to bed at eight o'clock to kill time. A play twice a week; the most fashionable ladies stand up in the front boxes and light a segar by the chandelier; the house filled with smoke.There are 82 titled families mostly idiots–all reduced to poverty by the emancipation of their slaves. If the war be continued a year Peru will be the most wretched country on the globe; indeed the Indians will regain their empire and exterminate all other colours. the number of blacks in the viceroyalty is estimated at seventy thousand–25000 in Lima and adjacent village the total population of Peru about three millions–three-fourths Indians.About the town there are many fine gardens with pretty country houses. Provisions of all sorts excellent and in the greatest variety; fruits of all climates in the marketplace the produce of the sea-shore and the Cordillera.–Beef and mutton excellent–the chief supplies come from Janja and other vallies in the Cordillera. The sea-shore produce is continued to little vallies badly cultivated; those about the town would disgrace the free negroes of Carolina. Most valuable land a league from the town half cultivated and half abandoned; every thing left to starved slaves; such famished objects I never beheld; no other hands to cultivate. When emancipation becomes general they will not work and famine must ensue.,settlement description;national characteristics;slavery;trade;society
