Article ID,Newspaper Title,Newspaper City,Newspaper Province,Newspaper Country,Year,Month,Day,Article Type,Text,Keywords
ID216,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1830,04,24,inform,The King's Health.It will be seen from our private letter that unfavourable accounts respecting his Majesty's health were circulating in London at 7 o'clock on Wednesday evening. In our last we alluded to the suspicions which the non-appearance of bulletins for four days after the first gave rise to. On Monday a second bulletin appeared certainly not of a character to remove the public anxiety and this has been followed by two days' silence. Every one naturally puts the question If his Majesty is better why not state this in a bulletin that the thousand discouraging rumours in circulation may be put to rest? The Morning Chronicle says that the high officers of State are not much better informed on the subject than others and that a knowledge of his Majesty's real condition is confined to the very few immediately around his person. In the absence of correct information inferences are drawn from every passing circumstance. It was observed that Sir Henry Halford very shortly after his return from Windsor on Tuesday morning had a long interview with the Duke of Wellington ; and it has not escaped notice that his Majesty's sister the Duchess of Gloucester had been sent for to visit him. The Globe says that according to reports which are circulated in high quarters his Majesty's illness excites considerable alarm and that gout in the stomach is complicated with dropsical symptoms. What credit may be due to these statements we cannot tell; but whether they be true or false they furnish a reason for the publication of official intelligence. The King's health is a matter which concerns the public deeply and all mystery and deception on the subject are most reprehensible. We refer to our London head for a variety of articles upon the subject ; and if this night's mail bring any additional information of importance we shall publish it in a secoond edition.The two Houses of Parliament meet again on Monday.We publish the address of the Birmingham Union to day and meant to accompany it with some remarks but have only time at present to express out regret that so masterly a paper dealing in great and immutable principles should have its value lessened by being so much mixed up with ephemeral matters and with false or questionable doctrines respecting currency.The passion for emigrating to Swan River has not received any check. There are four ships now at London and as many more at other ports which are preparing to sail for the settlement with passengers. Indeed the numbers who are flying from the country at this moment who are we believe quite unprecedented. Within the last ten days we have seen notices of fifteen ships that were loading with emigrants at Hull twelve at Waterford and several at Bristol Liverpool and Greenock all destined we think for the United States or British America. The exportation of human beings from the British Isles to different quarters of the world must now be proceeding at the rate of one or two thousand per week.It will be remembered that according to reports from India received some time ago Lord William Bentick had issued an order abolishing those horrid human sacrifices the Suttees. Doubts were thrown upon this intelligence when the subject was lately talked of in Parliament ; but we are happy to say that its accuracy is confirmed by the arrival of the official document. It is disgraceful to the British Indian Government that it has been hitherto either so callous that it overlooked this enormity or so ignorant of its own resources and the true state of the people under its authority as to believe that it had not power to effect its abolition.The report of a revolution having taken place in Chili is confirmed in letters from Bogota. The constitutional Director Pinto has been driven out of the capital by General Prieto with an armed force and great excesses are said to have been committed.A small fleet sailed lately from Cadiz for Havannah with 2000 soldiers on board. The expedition is supposed by some to be intended for the invasion of Mexico ; but it is more likely to find employment in keeping down the elements of insurrection in Cuba– The plot to which we alluded in our last seems to have excited much alarm. Some of the most opulent families in the island with several lawyers and official persons were concerned in it. Their object was as we conjectured to convert the island into an independent republic.From a detailed list published in the French papers it appears that the expedition against Algiers is to be composed of 34000 men infantry cavalray and artillery.Farther intelligence has been received from the capital of Colombia to the 14th of February. A warm address had been presented by the Congress to Bolivar entreating him not to abandon the republic at a moment when its existence was menaced by conspiracies; and he seems to have once more consented to remain in office. Commissioners had been appointed to proceed to Valentia and endeavour to accomodate the differences between the people of Venezuela and the central government by peaceable means. If these failed it was determined to employ force. The Congress was in session at Bogota and was proceeding to fulfil the object for which it had been assembled by drawing up a new constitution. The bases are published and though the present only an imperfect sketch of its plan they disclose one or two features which seem to be characteristic. The government is to be central as it has hitherto been not federal like that of the United States which has served as a model to Mexico Guatemala and La Plata. In the one case the supreme authority is vested in a single legislature which meets in the capital ; in the other it is divided among a number of local assemblies while the general congress representing the whole wields no other powers than what is necessary to hold the separate members in a state of union. The federal system which leaves to every province the management of its own conerns has advantages for a settled and enlightened community ; but whether it is equally adapted to the circumstances of an ignorant people newly escaped from political convulsions is very questionable. There seems however to be a partiality for the federal system in the new world ; and to humour this feeling the new constitution provides that Chambers of Distrcits shall be established with powers to decide on all municipal and local affairs. The difficulty will be to give these bodies the powers necessary to develope the industry and resources of the country without permitting them to impose taxes and exercise other legislative functions which will interfere with the business of the general government. Another articl state that the members of the Senate and House of Representatives are to hold their seats for a considerable time in order to avoid the inconveniences resulting from frequent changes or the repeated election of the same person. In the mouth of an English statesman we should consider this vile sophistry ; but allowance must be made for the res dur? novitas regni in a new state like Colombia formed of heterogenous elements among which it is not easy to establish any principle of cohesion. One the same grouns the Columbian legislators may be pardoned for resolving that the Catholic religion is that of the state and that no other shall be permitted. This is merely a concescession for the sake of peace to prejudice which the government is not strong enough to subdue and cannot defy without great danger. Nothing is said about the mode of election or the power of the Presiden two points of vital consequence which may give a new complexion to the whole scheme. We have made these remarks on the proposed constitution because it probably holds out the last chance of composing the trouble of Columbia. If it does not satisfy the people other provinces will soon follow the example of Venezuela and all the address and influence of Bolivar will not prevent the republic from splitting into four or five independent communities whose mutual jealousness and wars will crush the librties and destroy the prosperity of the whole.Private Correspondence. London Wednesday Evening. The King's HealthWe are sorry to state that the private accounts received from Windsor this afternoon do not speak so favourably of his Majesty's health as the Court Circular and most of the assertions of the papers published this afternoon. There having however been no bulletin issued up to the present hour (7 o'clock) must,
ID217,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1830,10,09,inform,Swan River Settlement.–On the 13th inst. the Swedish ship Sterling Captain D. E. Hogan with a Swedish crew sailedfrom Gottenburgh Sept. 22 for the settlement in Swan River. Among the cargo are eleven wooden houses built here and consisting of four to ten rooms which have been taken to pieces and will be easily put up again all the pieces being marked. It is probable that many similar cargoes will follow as timber and labour are so cheap in this country.,
ID218,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1830,11,10,inform,Messrs Marshall have made a most interesting addition to their beautiful Panorama of Botany Bay Algiers &c. of several Views illustrative of the principal events of the late Revolution in Paris and from the brilliant and effective style in which they are got up must draw the attention of the Public in no ordinary manner.,
ID219,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1831,06,29,inform,The Wool Trade.–London Thursday Night.– This afternoon the first sale of wools for a long time past took place at Garraway's Coffee-house. The quantity announced for sale to-day was nearly 200 bales consisting of about 100 bales of New South Wales wool 50 bales of Van Dieman's Land wools &c. The New South Wales wool was first put up and went off very briskly at prices averaging from 1s 4 1/2d to 1s 10d per lb. which quotations are higher than those last obtained. The Van Dieman's Land wools were sold by order of the Van Dieman's Land Company being a portion of the last arrivals from the Company's flocks. They met a very ready sale and the average prices obtained were from 1s 5d to 2s 1d per lb. The arrivals from Germany and other places this year are expected to be very great.,
ID220,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1831,06,04,inform,The brig Stirling Castle Captain Fraser sailed from Greenock on Wednesday morning for Sidney New South Wales having on board the Rev. J. D. Lang minister of the Scots Church in Sydney and two other Presbyterian Ministers ordained to new stations in that colony ; also three Professors intended for which a liberal Government grant has been obtained. There are also on board above 40 respectable mechanics with their families consisting chiefly of joiners masons and others required for the building of the College and a good many of whom are fromthis town making the number of passengers in all about 140 of whom above 20 and cabin passengers.,
ID221,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1831,07,27,inform,THE EQUALITY OF SEXES.–The Examiner of Saturday las has some witty remarks on the plaint which appeared in our paper on the excess of females over males in the census which he assures us is entirely owing to the lives of females being prolonged by their better regularity. This is a sly censure upon the habit of our countrymen one-fifth or sixth part of whom we were supposed by implication to be cut off permanently by intemperance! We admit that a few hearty fellows do go off in apoplexy; but we deny that the number bears any proportion to the amount supposed; we have two other remarks to make on his statement. First since our manners were corrupted by imitating English fashions it is whispered we hope un that there are such things as tippling women in country some of whom do disappear suddenly–no matter how; and secondly we wish our London friend inform us how it happens that while all Broad England has only an excess of 11 1/2 per cent females Edinburgh should have no less than 24! We understand that since this astounding fact was brought out there has been a great efflux of ladies from the city to the adjoining counties. We know a number who have or are flying to Fife and the north. A friend who careful observer compares it to the dispersion of the Jews. The ladies he says attribute their flight to Cholera Maribus!,
ID222,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1831,12,17,inform,The Ann Jameson Alexander sailed from Leith Roads on Tuesday morning for Bombay Van Diemen's Land and New South Wales with a full cargo between twenty and thirty passengers consisting mostly of young ladies.,
ID223,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1831,02,05,inform,The Machine Breakers.–A convict ship at Portsmouth is on the point of sailing for Van Diemen's Land with between two and three hundred convicts on board who have been lately convicted for machine breaking extorting money and other offences committed in the disturbed counties. Another ship with convicts of the same description will be dispatched for New South Wales in about a fortnight. These convicts have been kept entirely separate from all other prisoners and an accurate report will be made to the Governors of the Colonies as to their former character their trades and employments and the recommendations which have been made in their favour subsequently to their trials. The capital convicts whose lives have been spared are to be transported for life; and the convicts sentenced and recommended by the Judges for transportation are to be transported according to their respective sentences.,
ID224,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1832,03,03,inform,LeithExtensive preparations are already begun amongst e[?] shipping for the various Spring voyages to distant ports[?]. Six vessels are advertised for America one for Van Dieman's Land and New South Wales and the whalers[?] are unfurling their canvass and will sail for the [?] regions on Monday or Tuesday first. The departure of these ships will give the docks a naked appearance the more apparent from the few foreign vessels present here.,
ID225,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1832,04,07,inform,Mr Hume differed from the view taken of the subject by the right hon. baronet. He was of opinion that it was the duty of Government to give commutation allowance to pensioners anxious to emigrate either to New South Wales or to Canada. He could not forebear complaining of the large increase of pensions which had taken place since the year 1814. It was impossible to doubt that much misconduct had existed somewhere.,
ID226,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1832,10,13,inform,The Penal Colonies.Botany Bay serves as a recipient for criminals whose reformation is hopeless and whom it is therefore desirable to remove from the Society to whose peace and security they are sworn enemies. This is the sole value of the colony. If it did not exist recourse would be had more frequently to perpetual imprisonment and the gibbet. Experience shews however that transportation does not produce the intended effect of terrifying the guilty. Its monitory operation depends greatly on the situation of the criminal. Agricultural labourers with families dread it extremely while to single men mechanics who are sure of receiving high wages and generally to all those who feel a desire of change and a vague expectation of pushing their fortunes it appears to hold out no terrors whatever. In the colony there is a competition among settlers to obtain convinct servants and those who get them endeavour from a regard to their own interest to render the situation of the convicts as little irksome as possible. The evidence proves that when the feeling degradation is once overcome the situation of the Australian convict is in many respects preferable to that of the agricultural labourer in this country : He has better clothing more abundant food and enjoys a finer climate. The hardship too of compulsory labour is but for a limited time. The convict who is transported for 7 years is allowed a Ticket of Leave at the end of 8years. Once possessed of this ticket he is allowed to work on his own account and with high wages easily acquires capital. The committee see little chance of rendering punishment effective in the colony. They recommend various subordinate regulations and among others they suggest as a remedy for the great expense attending transportation that no convict be assigned to a settler until he shall have paid or given security for the payment by instalments of the expense incurred in the conveyance of the convict from the mother country.We are satisfied that the true check to the increase of crime is to be found first in the diffusion of education and sound knowledge ; and second in the improvement of our judicial and municipal institutions. Law in all its important branches should be dispensed by paid and responsible persons. A judge ought to be stationed in each small district and keep open court every day of the year. He should be chosen by some popular constituency which would faithfully represent the feelings of the mass of suitors; and as a guarantee for his diligence he should hold his office only for seven years and be re-eligible. Justices of Peace if retained at all should be elected as in most of the American states by the householders for three four or seven years. Jails also should be placed under the controul of popular bodies and thrown open to the improving efforts of private benevolence. In this as in other points we have much to learn from the Americans who never forget that the criminal is still a man. The grand defect in our legislation has been that the rich made laws for the poor of whose situation they had scarcely any knowledge and with whose feelings wants and moral condition they had of course no sympathy. The unpaid Magistracy of Britain is a barbarism belonging to the tenth century. Thirty years hence men will wonder how their forefathers tolerated so monstrous a system.,
ID227,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,05,29,inform,TradeWool–The accounts received in Lond from New South Wales to the 8th of January state that the produce of the last year's clip of wool in Australia will be greatest than that of the preceding year and the the quality has also considerably improved. From Van Dieman's Land it is now ascertained that the supply this year will be short but the general quality is very superior. In the course of about a week or ten days large arrivals of wool are looked for from New South Wales and the private contract business is expected to be very active. The public sales of wools went off on Friday very well and at full prices. The arrivals of this week have consisted of about 708 bales of which about 292 bales were Van Dieman's Land wools and the rest German. There is a steady demand and as it is understood that the manufacturers are short of stock the anticipations are that trade will son be greatly improved.York Wool Market May 23.–The market commenced here for this season this day with only a small show of wool and not many buyers. The holders asking very high prices caused part to be left unsold. The following are the prices ; Hogs from 18s to 19s ; Hogs and Ewes 16s 6d to 17s 6d ; Locks 11s to 12s 6d per stone of 16lbs.Bradford Market–The supply of Merinos in the markets on Thursday evening was by no means equal to the demand–all qualities in six quarter wide Merinoes were eagerly bought up and in some instances a farther advance was obtained ; three quarter wide Merinoes run much in demand but a very scanty supply ; the advance on six quarter wide Merinoes is from 4s to 6s per piece compared with what was given at the beginning of the year and three quarter wide are proportionably higher. Unless a reduction takes place in the price of wool the manufacturers state they must have a further advance.Rochdale Flannel Market.–The market today was very lively for this season of the yar ; low goods both for white and for dyeing were of very ready sale and in some instances a little advance was obtained ; several sales were effected in fine qualities and if the demand proves permanent the prospect for the coming season is very promising.Liverpool Cotton Market.–There has been but a limited inquiry for cotton during the week ; the sales are only about 10000 bugs at declining prices.,
ID228,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,06,29,inform,Emigration.–Within these few days other three vessels left Leith for America and Australia with emigrants. The Marjory Stocks sailed on Friday for Quebec and Montreal with about 30 passengers ; and the Economist Slocombe on Sunday for Piciou and Quebec with about 70. The Scotis Watson also sailed on Sunday for Van Diemen's Land &c. with about 40 passengers.,
ID229,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,07,10,inform,We have received Sydney papers to the 26th Feb. They contain reports of themost satisfactory nature as to the harvest at the Swan River Settlement; the promise of abundance had been fully realized and the result is that the settlers have obtained from their own land five months' consumption of agricultural produce; thus affording well founded hopes that in two or three years they will be independent of foreign supply.– Globe.,
ID230,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,08,03,inform,On Tuesday thirty-one male convicts were embarked at Leith for the hulks in the Thames preparatory to their transhipment for New South Wales except those in whose cases a commutation of punishment may take place.,
ID231,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,08,07,entertain,Edward Thorpe a young lad was remitted to the Sheriff for having broken into the New Market at Stocksbridge and stolen a quantity of meat and other articles. He pled guilty; and we understand he has stated that he is anxious to get a free passage to New South Wales as he is tired of living in this country.,
ID232,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,09,25,inform,The Wool Trade.–The whole of the London public sales of Colonial and other woold having now been gone through the wool trade is in a more settled state and transactions by private contract are conducted on a more extensive scale. The total amount of the late sales the last of which took place on Tuesday was 4000 bales and the colonial wools were taken by the manufactures at the extreme advance realized at the previous sales in July. In some cases indeed quotations from 2d to 3d per lb. in advance were obtained. The sales on Saturday was most fully attended and increased boldness was observed. The colonial wools offered on that day fetched excellent prices. Some few bales were also offered forming a part of the second clip of wools in the new colony on the Swan River. They were much better in quality than those last received. Some German lambs' wool also commanded attention and sold as high as 3s 10d to 4s per lb. The sale on Tuesday (the last of the series) was not quite so fully attended as those of last wekk but according to quality full prices were obtained. The sale consisted of 437 bales New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land wool 96 bales of Portugal wool 54 Spanish and 72 bales of Cape German Russian and other wools. The best fleece of Amsterdam offered fetched 2s 10d to 3s 2d and seconds 2s 3d to 2s 7 1/2d per lb ; the best Portugal 1s 2d to 1s 11d ; the best Spanish 2s 5d to 2s 8d ; the best Cape 1s 4d to 1s 8d ; the best Van Diemen's Land 1s 8d to 1s 10d ; and the best German 2s to 2s 3d per lb. The result of these sales is to establish a much firmer market for wools of all descriptions than previously existed. The arrivals of wool are limited and this week only 575 bales of German wool and abotu 375 bales of Neapolitan wool have been entered at the custom house.,
ID233,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,10,05,inform,Emigration.The returns to the House of Commons on the motion of Mr Stewart Mackenzie relative to emigration contain some curious and important information. The returns are three in number.1. Return of the number of person who have emigrated from Great Britain and Ireland to the British colonies and to the United States of America in each year from 1827 to the 31st of December 1832 ; distinguishing the ports from which they have sailed and the countries to which such emigration took place.Of this return the following is the result:–1827. 1828. 1829. 1830. 1831. 1832. To the British Colonies in America. 12646 12081 13307 30574 59067 66339 To the Cape of Good Hope. 114 135 197 201 114 196 To the Australian Colonies 715 1056 2010 1242 1561 3733 To the United States 14526 12817 15678 24887 23418 32872 Total 28003 26092 31198 56907 83160 1034102. Return of the number of families who emigrated to New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land since the formation of the Board of Emigration up to the present time having received loans from Government to enable them to emigrate ; specifying first the colony to which such emigration took place ; second the number of persons in each family ; third the amount of assistance granted. To New South Wales the number of families is 397 of persons 1538 amount of money expended t7831. To Van Dieman's Land–number of families 422 ; of persons 1571 ; amount of money expended t8406.3. Return of the number of young unmarried females not forming part of the above return who have emigrated to New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land during the same time having accepted assistance by way of loan from Government ; specifying first the colony to which such emigration took place ; second the amount of assistance granted :–To New South Wales–number of females 761 ; amount of money granted to them t9812. To Van Dieman's Land –number of females 509 ; amount of money granted to them t7114.,
ID234,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,12,07,inform,EmigrationThe subject of emigration is rising in importance from year to year and cannot lose its interest as long as much misery or much discontent exists among our working classes. Upper Canada the great recipient of our surplus population is 4000 miles from Britain a distance which looks extremely formidable ; but such is the amazing economy of water carriage when seconded by good arrangements that the voyage by sea to Montreal can be made at as small expense as the journey by land to Manchester ! The passage money from Dublin to Montreal or Quebec (exclusive of food) has been as low as 30s ; and it would not be higher probably from Leith or Greenock if the emigrants were in sufficient numbers and so prompt in their arrangements that the vessel lost no time beyond what was strictly necessary for taking her full compliment aboard. If the ship is detained a month before this is got the owners must of course be indemnified for the detention by a higher fare. Four stone of oatmeal with a little ham or salt fish for variety will subsist a man or woman on the voyage ; and thus a human being can be conveyed over a distance equal to one-sixth part of the circumference of the globe and six times longer we dare say than the wanderings of Ulysses at the small coast of 45s !In an article in May 1832 we pointed out the rapid strides with which emigration was advancing ; and some Parliamentary papers we have received since exhibit new proofs of its extraordinary progress. It has in fact outstripped the expectations of the most sanguine.The following table shows the number of person who have emigrated in the last eight years to North America the Cape and Australia :–British America. United States. Cape of G. Hope. Australia. Total. 1825 8714 5551 114 485 14891 1826 12818 7063 116 903 20900 1827 12 14526 114 715 28003 1828 12084 12817 135 1056 26092 1829 13307 15678 197 2916 31198 1830 30574 24887 204 1242 56907 1831 58067 23418 11 1561 83160 1832 66339 32872 196 3733 103140It will be seen from this table how steady the increase of emigration has been especially to Canada. It must be observed that a great proportion probably more than a half of those who sailed for the United States were destined for the British colonies and only chose that route as the most eligible on account of the facilities which the Hudson and its associated canals present for travelling to the upper province. Canada and Nova Scotia must have drawn at least 80000 settlers from Britain last year ; and yet such are the capacities of these colonies for absorbing population that the price of labour was not lowered in the least degree ; and from the previous arrangements made it is announced that a much larger number of persons could have been received without inconvenience ! Sanguine as we were upon the subject we did not anticipate that emigration could be conducted on such a scale with the extraordinary ease certainty and economy now exemplified. Those who reflect on the distress and perplexity which would be produced by landing the sixth-part of eighty thousand strangers on the shores of Britain in one summer will appreciate the extremely dissimilar condition of a colony which with less than a million inhabitants can take in eighty-thousand new settlers in the same period without embarassment or confusion.The general result is that Britain sent off 103000 souls from her population last year of whom a[?] number sailed 7000 miles a number 14000 and those who made the shortest voyage 4000 miles. The annals of emigration afford nothing approaching to this in any part of the world ; and yet we may reasonably expect to see still greater things atcheived.It appears from the various census since 1801 that the annual increase in Britain if no persons left it would be about 350000; or we may place the fact in a more striking light by stating that there are about a thousand persons more in the three kingdoms every day than there was on the day before. If by raising the habits and ideas of the labouring classes we could get this daily increase reduced one half and the other half could be carried off by emigration–if we could by this means keep the supply of labour stationary while capital was increasing a great improvement would be effected in the state of the population. Now from what has been stated it appears that the emigrants who leave our shores annually amount to nearly one third of the annual excess already ; and in a year or two there is every probability that it will amount to one-half.Of 51200 emigrants who landed at Quebec and Montreal last year 17500 went from England 28200 from Ireland and 5500 from Scotland. In the year 1831 the numbers were from England 10300 Ireland 34100 Scotland 5300.Of the emigrants from Scotland last year 1716 sailed from Greenock 1145 from Leith 638 from Cromarty 478 from Aberdeen 439 from Dundee 231 from Alloa 181 from Islay 175 from Anna 160 from Glasgow 112 from Leven 110 from Campbeltown and numbers under 100 from Stanraer Peterhead and Irvine.Of the emigrants to the United States last year 15754 sailed from Liverpool 5546 from London 2742 from Bristol 2613 from Londonderry and 1711 from Greenock.Mr Buchanan the Government agent at Quebec states in his Report that the general description of emigrants who arrived last year ; many respectable and wealthy families came from all part of the united kingdom ; and the extent of property and specie brought into the country by them is exceedingly great fully amounting to from t600000 to t700000 sterling. About 5000 persons were sent out by pecuniary aid from parishes or landlords ; and there were 1700 commuted pensioners (military we believe) many of them men of irregular habits and ill fitted for the situation of settlers. Of these about 100 returned to Britain. The fear of cholera was a considerable check to emigration. It appeared in Quebec on the 8th of June and the persons who arrived after that suffered much from the difficulty of procuring lodgings even for a day ; but Mr Buchanan estimates the whole number of emigrants who fell victims to the disease at no more thanThe demand for all classes of working people (says the Report) has never been exceeded in the Canadas particularly since the abatement of the cholera and I can assure your Lordship that during my late tour through the districts and settlements of Upper Canada I did not see an industrious emigrant who could not meet with emplyment. The number of that class arrived this year is not adequate to supply the demand created by the more wealthy emigrants. This was particularly felt in the Western and London districts of the upper province where the want of labourers was so great that it was found necessary to encourage a number to come over from Ohio and Pennsylvania. This was written on the 12th Dec. 1832 and the arrival of emigrants closed in October.,
ID235,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,02,02,inform,Another cargo of females is now shipping on board the Ann Captain Herd in the London Docks for Sydney. These ladies are going out in serarch of husbands and to supply the lamentable scarcity of the fair sex in our Australian dominions. There is a bounty of t8 given by government towards defraying the expenses of the voyage ; and the ladies must be between 15 and 30 with good characters and sound constitutions. Ass servants they are much wanting among the respectable inhabitants of Sydney and the other towns in the colony.Emigration.–The governors of the Refuge for the Destitute in the Hackney Road have announced that it is their intention to send out a ship to New South Wales in the ensuing spring with 500 unmarried women or widows between the ages of 18 and 30 years as emigrants to New South Wales. It is intended to place the emigrants in divers situations and leave them free and not bound to an employer.,
ID236,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1833,02,02,inform,Emigration.–The governors of the Refuge for the Destitute in the Hackney Road have announced that it is their intention to send out a ship to New South Wales in the ensuing spring with 500 unmarried women or widows between the age of 18 and 30 years as emigrants to New South Wales. It is intended to place the emigrants in divers situations and leave them free and not bound to an employer.,
ID237,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,04,16,inform,Emigration to New South Wales and Van Diemen's LandThe following document has just been issued from the Colonial Office:–Downing street April 6 1834. Numerous applicants have been received from persons desirous of emigrating to New South Wales or Van Dieman's Land who after stating their inability to defray the whole charge of their conveyance solicit aid for that purpose on condition of repaying the same out of their earnings in the colony where they propose to settle. His Majesty's government has sanctioned the appropriate of a limited sum out of the colonial revenues of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land to assist the private funds of such emigrants as may appear likely to earn the means of repayig that aid and to become useful settlers. The following are the regulations under which this induglence will be dispensed:–No advance will be made except to young and married agricultural labourers who intend taking their wives and families with them : and a strict inquiry will be instituted into their character and habits of industry before the assistance they solicit will be granted to them.No one family will be allowed an advance exceeding t20; and it will be useful therefore for parties who may not possess the remainder of the sum requisite for defraying the expense of their passage to apply for assistance.Every person desirous of receiving the proposed advance must fill up and send back to the Under Secretary of State for the Colonial Department the return hereto annexed. If the information contained in this return and the answers to the inquiries which may be addressed to the parties who certify the correctness of the return shall be considered satisfactory the applicant will receive notice to that effect. He may then proceed to make his agreement with the owners or masters of ships proceeding to New South Wales or Van Diemen's land and as soon as any ship-owner or master shall notify (in a form which will be provided for that purpose) that the emigrant has taken the other necessary steps for engaging his passage and order will be granted for the payment in the colony of t20 to the agent or master of the vessel in which this emigrant may arrive. The emigrant will of course be able to[?] ob-[?] tain a corresponding deduction from the amount[?] [?] paid by himself in this country.The order for payment will be entrusted [?] ter of the vessel in which the emigrants to pro[?] and will consist of a sealed dispatch to the governor containing the name and description of the party on whose account the money is to be paid and encolosing a promissory note which he will be required to sign in acknowledgement of his debt ; which note must be witnessed by the captain and chief mate of the vessel. But arrangements will be made by which the payment of this order will not take place in the colony until the captain shall have produced the parties on whose account it is to be made before the officer appointed for that purpose and they shall have entered into a fresh obligation for the repayment of the advance made to them. For it is the intention of his Majesty's Government and cannot be too clearly understoof by all persons who may accept this loan that repayments of the debt (in such proportions and at such intervals as may not be unsuitable to the circumstances of each emigrant) shall be strictly enforced by means of the ample powers which the laws of the colony render available for that purpose.Government agents for emigration have been appointed at Liverpool Bristol Dublin Cork Limerick Belfast and Greenock who have been instructed to afford gratuitous information to all persons applying to them as to the best means of carrying their schemes of emigration into effect. Parties therefore who may reside in the neighbourhood of these agents are requested to apply to them either personally (or if by letter post paid) for information on this subject.All application for the assistance of government must be made by letter only addressed to R. W. Hay Esq. Under Secretary of State London ; and should the number of applications be greater than the funds at their disposal will enable them to comply with priority of date will form the rule of selection among applications in which there shall appear no other groun of distinction.W. R. Hay.,
ID238,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,06,18,inform,The ship Numa Captain Day sailed from Leith road yesterday forenoon with a full cargo of goods and 37 passengers for Van Diemen's Land and New South Wales.,
ID239,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,06,28,inform,We understand from good authority that Government has decided upon sanctioning the foundation of a new colony on the coast of South Australia. The plan on which this undertaking is to be conducted is explained in a work entitled England and America. This first act of Mr Stanley's successor is an earnest of his becoming a most valuable Minister for the colonies of this country.,
ID240,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,07,02,inform,A highly respectable and very numerous meeting is holding this Exeter-hall on the subject of the new Colony in Australia the establishment of which has recently received the sanction of the Government.,
ID241,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,07,23,inform,Australian Emigration Bill.–Mr W. Whitmore brough in a bill for establishing a colony in Southern Australia. The bill was read a first time and ordered to be read a second time on Wednesday next.,
ID242,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,07,05,inform,South Australian Emigration Association.A meeting of the members of the South Australian Association was held on Monday at Exeter Hall for the purpose of explaining the principles objects plan and prospects of a new colony proposed to be founded in South Australia. Mr W. Whitmore in the chair.Upon taking the chair Mr Whitmore stated that the first question which the meeting would have to consider would be this–whether there existed or not at present any necessity for a more extended system of colonization. It appeared to him that there was a great defect in our present system of colonication and that it would be greatly to our advantage if we established it upon a new principle well and seriously considered. That which struck him as the greatest defect was that we did not provided that colonization which included within it members of all classes of society. Large numbers of emigrants went out with capital but not carrying with them that number of the lower class which was necessary to employ their capital to advantage. In other cases perhaps almost as numerous the labourer went out without capital which was necessry to enable him to employ his labour to advantage. This was a striking defect. Now the question which they were then called upon to consider regarded the best means of remedying that defect. Those means it appeared to him were quite practicable and might be accomplished in this manner vz. by establishing as a system that all the waste lands which they were about to colonize should be sold at a given price such as the market would command and that the proceeds of such sales should be employed in sending out to the colonies a sufficient number of labourers to cultivate the lands so sold. If this system could be carried into effect he apprehended that all the evils of our present system of colonization would be removed and that we should be enabled to transplant a portion of the community of the mother country with all its various grades into the new country which they now proposed to coloniz. He believed that if we proceeded upon this principle we should lay the foundation of the greatest colony which England had ever settled.Mr Grote M.P. moved the first resolution–That the wealth and prosperity of this country have been greatly promoted by the establishment of British colonies in various parts of the world and that colonization when conducted systematically and upon sound principles offers the means of extending indefinitely the commercial empire of the united kingdom and the field of employment for British capital and labour. He would not enter into the recommendations which this undertaking offered to all classes of the community ; but he would venture to state that to any gentleman who considered the prospectus which had been put out by the association and who recollected that it was a matter of certainty that the land in the colony was to be used as the means of raising a fund to carry over thither the labour which was superabundant here it must be evident that from this important innovation on our colonial system great benefit must be derived[?] both to the new colony and to the mother country.Mr Clay M.P. in seocnding the resolution entered at great length into the difficulty of finding employment which now prevails in all parts of the community and then after condemning the corn laws continued thus–Colonization if carried on to a considerable extent would as effectually add millions of fertile acres to our shores as if the Irish sea were filled up with fertile land. If that miracle took place is it not clear that all distress would immediately cease and that the emplyment which the addition of so many fertile acres would afford must give a new stimulus to the prosperity of the country ? Is it not clear that the miserable compotation[?] for potato-gardens in Ireland would cease and that the difficulties flowing from an unemployed population would cease ? Does any man doubt that it would be well worth the while of our capitalists to take such land at from 10s to 20s an acre. (Hear.) Yet this plan is in effect the same as if the land were added to our own island because if this plan of colonization be adopted a transplantation of a sufficiency of labourers now wanting employment from this country for its culture will take place which is equivalent to the transportation of the land to the labourer. In point of fact the ocean joins these distant lands instead of separating them. (Hear.)– There can be no doubt but that a wider comercial code and the removal of restrictions on labour would greatly facilitate extend and increase the commercial intercourse between the old nation of the world ; but in no case would the increase be in proportion to that which might be calculated on as the consequence of a connection with newly-formed countries in other climates. As regards the establishment of colonies it is virtually an extension of the mother country.Colonel Torrens M.P. proposed the second resolution– That in establishing colonies great care ought to be taken to combine labour and capital with land in such proportions as are best calculated to insure the prosperity of all classes of society and that in establishing modern colonies this important consideration has been so generally overlooked. It was he said almost unnecessary for him to state that in all systems of colonization land labour and capital ought to be combinedin just proportions ; and yet this simple prin ciple had been hitherto greatly neglected by those who had led new colonies from the mother country. In the first place the whole of the land of this colony was to be public land. No individual was to obtain a single acre by gift. There was to be no patronage no job–all were to be on a footing of equality and nobody was to have a single inch of land for nothing. There would also be another advantage in this system which would arise in the following :–In other colonies the labourer who had gone out and found that he could get land for nothing had often fallen into the mistake that land was wealth instead of it being merely the means of producing wealth. That fatal mistake had often led him to refuse the work of the master with whom he had gone out and set up for himself as an independent landowner. He had in consequence set up where he was far away from the market of the colony where he had no roads over which to convey his produce and where he had perished miserably. But in this colony the labourers would be compelled for some time to work for hire.Mr Guest M.P. seconded the resolution.Mr Hutt M.P. moved the third resolution to the following effect:–That in order to promote the greatest prosperity of a new colony it is expedient that all waste land without any exception shall be declared public land and be disposed of to individuals by sale only and according to an uniform impartial and permanent system.Captain Gowan seconded the resolution and spoke in the highest terms of the salubrity of the climate of Australia. Many of his fellow soldiers in India had gone there for the recovery of their health and had found something so temperate and soothing in the country that they had retired there altogeher preferring its mild and gentle breeze to the chills of their native country England.Mr P. Scrope M.P. moved That it is also desirable that the whole of the purchase money of public land without any deduction should be employed in providing a free passage from the mother country to the colony of young adult persons of the labouring class who may be willing to emigrate and in equal proportion of both sexes. As the want of labour was the great difficulty in all infant colonies the more labour they imported the greater labour did they give their land ; the more they got for the sale of it the greater was their power of importing fresh labour. This resolution therefore acted in a reciprocal manner upon itself and when it was once fairly put into operation they would proceed onwards on the road to prosperity with accelerated velocity meeting with no other obstacle than the unwillingness of England to part with her inhabitants.Mr Wilks M.P. seconded the resolution.Mr Handson moved –That amongst the unoccupied portions of the earth which form part of the British dominions the south coast of Australia appears to be a sport peculiarly suitable for founding a colony upon the principles embodied in the preceding resolutions. The place where this colony was to be founded was one distinguished from every other part of Australia from its possessing a facility of internal communications prior even to the formation of roads and the soil would amply repay the labour expended on its cultivation.Mr Robert Owen (not of Lanark) said that the coasts of this colony abounded with whales and that its whale fisheries might become valuable.Mr M. D. Hill rose to propose the resolution embodying the mode of carrying the principles of this association into effect. No colony could go on without some law. He did not care how little they had of it provided they made up in quality what was deficient in quantity. The hon. member entered into an elaborate description of the laws intended to be enacted for the colony and concluded by moving–That the provisions for the peace order and good government of the British Province of South Australia as contained in the bill now before Parliament are highly satisfactory.Mr D. Wakefield seconded the resolution.Sir W. Molesworth M.P. proposed and Mr Childers M.P. seconded the following resolution :–That it is the opinion of this meeting that the thanks of the country are due to Mr Spring Rice for his prompt and enlightened conduct in promoting the beneficial public object of the South Australian Association.The resolutions were carried unanimously. Thanks were given to the Chairman and the meeting at which many ladies were present broke up. The proceedings lasted from twelve o'clock to a quarter before five.,
ID243,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,08,02,inform,House of Commons.–July 28 (Continued from our last.)A message from the Lords announced that their Lordships had agreed to the Amendments to the Ministers Appointment (Scotland) bill ; to the Newspaper Postage bill ; and to the Orkney Statute Labour bill.Affairs of OudeOn the order of the day for the third reading of the Universities' Admission bill being moved–Mr Herriks[?] took the occasion of calling on Government to explain the circumstances which had occurred in certain transactions between the Board of Controul and the East India directors. These transactions the hon. gentleman stated to be the repeated peremptory commands of the Board of Controul to the Directors of the East India Company to prepare a despatch for the purpose of directing the Indian Government to compel the King of Oude to pay certain claims made on him on behalf of Calcutta bankers which commands the Court of Directors refused to obey on the ground that the interference which the Board of Controul required them to exercise with the King of Oude was inconsistent with the relations subsisting between the British Government and the King of Oude and would be most mischievous in effect. On the 31st of January the right jon. gentleman had appliedfor and obtained a rule to show cause why under the act of Parliament a mandamus should not issue to compel the Court of Directors to comply with the desire ofthe Board of Controul. On the 31st of January 1834 the Court of King's bench was prepared to give its decision upon the application for the mandamus when without any reason being assigned the right hon. President of the Board of Controul withdrew his application.Mr C. Grant said that in the regret which had been expressed respecting the possible collision between the two authorities he fully concurred; bu entertaining such a sentiment he confessed it surprised him not a little to find his Right Hon. Friend endeavouring to open a dispute already composed. The right honourable gentleman then proceeded to give a brief outline of the case and referred to the various high authorities connected with India who had declared in favour of the demand. With regard to his having withdrawn the application for the mandamus without explanation he had to say that he fully explain his opinions to the Directors he had re-stated them verbally to the chairman and he did not think himself required under the circumstances to re enter into a long discussion upon the point. The effect of the recommendation to the King of Oude was merely to urge the claim upon his attention.Sir R. Peel said it was a perfectly novel doctrine and in the present state of the world most inconvenient that the nonpayment of debts due to his subjects should give the King of England a right forcibly to intervene with foreign states except where sanctioned by positive treaty.Mr Hume contended that on the whole the debt was a just one and ought to be paid.The subject here dropped.Admission of Dissenters to the Universities.On the question that this bill be read a third timeMr T. Gladstone rose to oppose it. It would he said be useless to pass the bill for it would of necessity be inoperative. If he were asked why he opposed a bill which if passed would be inoperative his answer was that he objected to its principle the admission of which was equally destructive whether it effected the object of its promoters or not. Further they were bound to respect corporate rights as long as the intentions of their founders were fulfilled ; and no one could deny that the Universities did fulfilthe intentions of their founders. (Hear hear.)Mr V. Smith supported the bill as one calculated to take away a reproach from the Establishment and be felt as a compliment by the Dissenters whose only desire was to exercise their vigorous intellects in the promotion of science and literature.Mr Baines said that the original statutes showed that there were then no tests nor did any exist at Oxford in either the time of the Lollards or of Wickliff. The term University had in it an argument for thegeneral use of these seats of learning which were meant to be universal both as to the subjects taught and the persons to whom they were communicated. In this sense the term was understood and applied in other countries and it was an extraordinary fact deserving of attention that the Universities of Oxford and of Cambridge were the only universities that were closed to a large proportion of the upper classes of the people in any country in Europe. This the Dissenters of England felt as a grievous indignity and they thought it unjust that Englishmen should attempt to degrade Englishmen by excluding them from the best seats of literature and science.Mr H. Hughes could not accede to the measure and therefore moved that it be read that day six months.Mr Goulburn contended that the introduction of the Dissenters as proposed under the present bill would be nothing short of the destruction of the present system of education at the Universities. It was indisputable that at a University religion could only be taught according to some set form : abandon that mode of tuition and you abandon the religion itself. (Cries of No no.) If they let in Dissenters it was perfectly obvious the intentions of the founders of those establishments would be completely defeated : he therefore deprecated the measures as injurious to religon and opposed to the best interest of the country.Lord Palmerstone Sir R. Inglis and Mr G. Wood then addressed the house but amidst such discordant noises as prevented what they said being heard. The laughing jeering shouting were such as has seldom been heard. In particular two hon. members who entered from the smoking room into the opposite gallery during the address of Mr Wood and who stretched themselves at full length on the seats secure from the observation of the Speaker kept up a row of the most discreditable character. The Speaker with much indignation in his tone and manner called the parties to order.The motion for the third reading was carried on a division by 164 to 25. The Trading Companies Bill the Arms Importation (Ireland) Bill and the Court of Chancery (Ireland) Bill went through committees.The Four Courts (Dublin) Bill the Weights and Measures Bill and the Turnpike Acts Amendment Bill were read a third time and passed.The Almanack Stamps Repeal Bill the Assessed Taxes Repeal Bill and the Militia Ballot Suspension Bill were brought in and read a first time.The house was counted out at three o'clock in the morning.Tuesday July 29.Sir John Cam Hobhouse and General Sir Edward Barnes took the oaths and their seats ; the former for Nottingham in the room of Lord Duncannon raised to the Peerage ; the latter for Sudbury in the room of M. A. Taylor Esq. deceased.On the motion of Mr Alderman Thompson the Durham and Sunderland Railway bill was read a third time and passed.Southern AustraliaMr S. Rice moved the order of the day for the house to resolve into Committee upon the Bill for the Colonization of Southern AustraliaMr A.Baring rose and stated various objections to the project. The hon. member contended that at this period of the year there was not time to deliberate upon such an important subject and independent of this preliminary objection he said he did not conceive that government ought to sanction any such experiment without a full conviction that there was a reasonable probability of its success. In his opinion the experiment was founded upon bases more mistaken than any similar one which had ever been tried. In fact according to the plan which had been laid down the colony would be tied up by mortgages in such a way that it would not again revert to the Crown so that the territory would be lost. The result would be that if the gentlemen who set the project on foot were mistaken–as he was sure they had been–we would be prevented from touching this large portion of Australia unless we could pay off the debt which had been contracted. While he stated these objections to the plan he was anxious not to be understood to be inimical to colonization for he was very favourable to it. Every new opening to colonization he was convinced was a substantial benefit to the poorer classes (Hear hear hear.) It was not therefore to the principle of colonization that he was opposed but he objected to this bill becaue the plan was a most mistaken one and would eventually shut up this large portion of the world. One of his main objections was to the extent to which it was proposed to carry the experiment. Let the gentlemen take if they like 100 square miles but let them not risk the whole of a great continent. People like fuel he said could not well be carried too far ; they might get a few thousands to go out but they would never get the tens of thousands to go which were required for the success of the project. The hon. member then objected to two of the principles which were laid down by the projectors that land should not be sold lower than 12s. per acre and that no credit should be given. He was convinced that any man acquainted with the practical workings of the system in other colonies would blow up the whole plan in a moment. No man who went out to Australia would think of taking less than two hundred acres. Now that would cost him t120; it would cost him t120 more to get himself and his family over; which with stock and other expenses would amount to t500 or t600. He would therefore ask any gentlemen in that house whether they thought any man who had t500 or t600 in this country would go out and set himself down on two hundred acres in Australia. (Hear hear.) He therefore suggested to his right hon. friend to consent that the committee be postponed until another session and then have it referred to a select committee. He concluded by moving as an amendment that the bill be committed on that day six months.Mr W. Whitmore was thakful for the very candid manner in which the hon. member had stated his objections to the bill. With respect to the large extent of territory he (Mr W.) thought that was necessary as it was intended to introduce a completely new system of colonization–one very different from any thing ever before attempted. The extent of land it was intended to take under this act was from 500000 to 600000 square miles and it was the leading principle of the bill that all the money arising from the sale of lands should be applied to the purpose of sending out labourers free of expense.– (Hear hear hear.) If this plan succeeded there would be a constant stream of emigrants going out. The land sold by the Canada Company had been at a higher price. He had sanguine hopes that all the money it would be necessary to borrow would be easily repaid. He most conscientously considered that this bill would prove a very great benefit to the country. It would tend exceedingly towards facilitating and amending the conditions of the people of England and Ireland and therefore he hoped it would pass.Mr O'Dwyer contended that before the house thought of agreeing to such a bill as this they ought to do something towards the ameloriation of the condition of the people of Ireland. The various reports which committees of that house had made showed that one-fourth of the land of that country was untilled but was at the same time what was called reclaimable land and well calculated for the cultivation and produce of grain. Let this country advance some of the surplus capital talked of by the hon. member towards the cultivation of this bog land and discontent would flee[?] from Ireland entirely. The Irish people wanted employment give them that and the house would hear no more about murders fires and other outrages.Mr S. Rice in reference to the allusion made by the hon. and learned member begged to say that although much of the bog land in question belonged to private individuals yet a portion of it was the property of the Government who had been and still were making experiments with a view to ascertain if the views of the Commissioners could be carried into effect. With respect to the manner in which the hon. member for Essex had opened this question he must confess that he had brought with him much of usefulness and of experience and of such a character too as could not fail to carry weight. The right hon. gentleman then proceeded to speak in favour of the proposed colonization of South AustraliaAfter some farther discussion strangers were ordered to withdraw and the house divided when there appeared–For going into committee 72; against it 7–Majority 65.The bill went through the committee. The report was received and ordered to be taken into further consideration on Thursday next.Several petitions were presented and at three o'clock the Speaker left the chair.,
ID244,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,09,24,inform,The St Nicholas Morgan which has arrived off Aberdeen from Bathurst New South Wales reports that timber was very scarce ; that the woods between that town and Miramichi were on fire ; that 250 tons of cut timber had been burnt and the people in the woods had been obliged to abandon their camps and fly to save their lives. The thermometer at Bathurst was from 85 to 90.,
ID245,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,11,11,inform,Colonel C. J. Napier has been appointed Governor of the embryo colony in South Australia and we believe that a fitter appointment could not have been made. We only regret that Colonel Napier has not been sent to superintend a colony founded on something like sane principles. But if this Australian project end as we have little doubt it will do in the ruin of those who are weak and silly enough to embark in it no one will ascribe any part of the failure to the incapacity or unfitness of the Governor. The whole blame will fall on the contrivers of the scheme.,
ID246,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1834,11,08,inform,Emigration.–According to a general return of emigrants who have left Liverpool for the British colonies and the United States of America it appears that from the 7th of May 1833 to the 30th September 1834 3121 persons left there for the colonies and 27486 for the United States making a grand total of 30607 persons. The ships employed were 455 ; the tonnage 196058 and the crews 89956. The chief of the emigrants to the United States disembarked at New York 24311 having landed there. Of the emigrants to the colonies 1289 went to Australia and 1227 to Quebec. The emigration to the West Indies during the above period only amounted to 12 to the smaller islands 3 to Antigua 32 to Jamaica and 26 to Demerara. The emigrants to Van Diemen's Land were 135.,
ID247,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1835,05,13,inform,Emigration.–The Venus steam-boar left the Steam Packet Wharf St Katherine's Dock yesterday morning with from 230 to 240 female emigrants to take their passage on board the ship Canton for Sydney. The emigrants were for the most part fine healthy looking girls some of them of exceedingly interesting appearance and almost all of a class much above that in which the distress which prompts to emigration would be supposed to exist.,
ID248,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1835,07,08,inform,A new principle has been recognised in the regulations attendant upon the transportation of convicts from this country to New South Wales. Boys of six and girls of ten years will be allowed to accompany their parents to that distant colony.,
ID249,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1835,08,05,inform,Emigration–We observe from an advertisement in our paper of to-day that another ship is fitting out by Government for the free conveyance of females to Van Dieman's Land ; and as we understand that many applications were made too late for the last ship we would recommend those anxious to take advantage of this opportunity to lose no time in making the neccessary application at Leith–the number being strictly limited and being the last ship to sail this year. We consider it of great advantage to females of respectability that none are admitted without a strict investigation into their moral character by the Emigration Committee ; and that those of a superior class as governesses &c. are provided a small sum to defray the expense of the extra outfit.,
ID250,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1835,08,05,inform,Free Emigration of FemalesThe Emigration Committee (acting under the authority of the Secretary of State for the Colonies) HEREBY GIVES NOTICE That the BOADICEA a fine new ship of 500 Tons fitted expressly for the conveyance of Females will sail from GRAVESEND on Thursday the 1st day of October for HOBART TOWN.Single Females of good character between 15 and 30 years of age will be admitted to a Free Passage by making application accompanied with certificates to Lieut. Forrest R.N. his Majesty's Agent for Emigration Custom-house Leith from whom particulars may be obtained.A limited number of MARRIED AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS and MECHANICS and their Failies will be sent by this Vessel on liberal terms ; but none need apply without certificates of moral character.,
ID251,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1835,09,16,inform,On Thursday evening a dinner was given to Captain Hindmarsh R.N. to celebrate the circumstance of his Majesty having graciously expressed his approbation of the choice of that gentleman to be the Governor of the new colony in South Australia. The entertainment took place at the Albion Tavern.,
ID252,Scotsman,Edinbugh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1835,11,21,inform,South Australia.–The act of Parliament for founding this colony will now come into full operation ; the Commissioners having complied with the conditions precedent by the sale of t35000 worth of land and by raisingthe required loan for the government of the colony. We may therefore expect shortly to see the names of the various officers gazetted (some of them have been long ago nominated) ; and we understand that active preparations are making with a view to the immediate departure of the officers and a small body of emigrants. This first expedition will be placed under the command of Captain Hindmarsh R.N. the Governor ; who with the assistance of the Surveyors and other qualified persons will carefully examine the various harbours in the colony the quality of the neighbouring soil the supply of water &c. ; and will select that site which all things considered is most desirable for the first town. We believe it is the intention of the Commissions not to send out the main body of emigrants until the next spring so as to allow ample time for the necessary preparations for their reception.–Spectator.There have been 300 convents suppressed within the last three years. The example was set by the Emperor of Russia who was by an ukase dated 31st July 1832 abolished 187 convents of monks. This was followed by the King of Prussia who by a royal order secularised all the convents in the Duchy of Posen. In 1834 Don Pedro put down 300 convents and Spain has lately abolished 1800.,
ID253,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,03,12,inform,Emigration.–It will be observed from an advertisement in to-day's paper that Government are fitting another ship for the free conveyance of single females from London to Van Dieman's Land ; and from the great demand for agricultural labourers and mechanics of every description in that colony it has been resolved to grant a passage to that class at a cost not above what is paid to America–Government paying the remainder of the sum as a bounty amounting to t30 which may certainly be looked upon as a great boon both by individuals and the colony at large. In all the colonies there appears to be a scarcity of working people as from an official document in our possession it is asserted on authority that in Upper Canada agricultural labourers domestic servants and tradesmen of every description will be for some years in great request. Farm labourers readily obtain from t25 to t30 per annum with board lodging and washing and day-labourers from 3s. to 4s. per day with provisions. The government agent for emigration for the Canadas asserts he could find immediate employment for 20000 working people as public improvements are much retarded for want of hands. As this is the best season we would advise all those intending to emigrate to apply to the government agent for emigration at the Custom House Leith who will give gratuitous information regarding the colonies and advise as to the best method of putting their plans into execution. The rate of wages for every description of mechanics may be likewise seen there.,
ID254,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,03,12,inform,Free Emigration of Females To Australia.The splendid Ship Amelia Thompson of 500 tonsIs now fitting by the Emigration Committee (under the authority of the Secretary of State for the Colonies) expressly for the free conveyance of single females of good character between the ages of 15 and 30 to sail from Gravesend for Van Dieman's Land on Thursday the 28th April.A limited number of married Agricultural labourers and Mechanics will be admitted to a passage in this ship upon payment of t10 for a married couple upon being approved of.Applications to be made in Scotland to Lieutenant Forrest R. N. his Majesty's Agent for Emigration Custom-House Leith.Agricultural Labourers and Mechanics of every description are in demand in the Colony.H. M. Emigration Office Leith 8th March 1836.,
ID255,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,03,26,inform,The New Australian Colony.–The Cygnet with the first party of emigrants to the New Colony of South Australia will sail to-day from Gravesend ; eight gentlemen have gone out as surveyors taking with them upwards of twenty artisans and labourers a surgeon steward and harbour-master.,
ID256,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,04,16,inform,Australian Colonies.–We have seen a printed circular containing extracts of a letter from Mr John Sullivan surgeon-superintendent of the Emigrant ship Canton dated Sydney 6th October 1835 addressed to Edward Forster Esq. chairman of the Emigration Committee London. In this letter Mr Sullivan mentions that the female emigrants on landing were placed in spacious and commodious buildings adjoining the Government House at Sydney where every attention was paid to their comfort and security from improper intrusion. The writer further states :– We landed in Sydney a greater proportion of well conducted industrious and virtuous young women than were ever before landed from any of the ships of the Emigration Committee that came to these Colonies. Three-fourths of the young women were engaged and went into comfortable situations on the first and second days after landing ; and before a week all the useful and good servants viz. laundresses cooks servants of all work dairymaids and housekeepers were in places many of them in Syndey and the surroundings districts ; several were taken up the country to Maitland and Bathurst ; and as many more cooks laundresses dairymaids or farm servants as we had could obtain places in that time for these are the descriptions of female servants in demand throughout the colony. The wages varied from t8 to t20. Some who were not very good servants of all work and housemaids got t8 to t10 ; cooks and laundresses t12 to t16 (the latter are much wanted) ; housemaids and needlewomen t10 to t12 ; housekeepers t16 to t20. Governesses also are much sought for it ; if we had had twenty qualified they could have got situations in respectable families and schools ; but the salaries to this class are small say t25 to t40. Nursery governesses got t20. All the male emigrants who understood agriculture or the management of stock in general but particularly sheep were engaged immediately at salaries varying from t40 to t50 with a house and rations for family use. We understand that the Canton had a number of females from Edinburgh and its neighbourhood and the above information must be highly satisafactory to their relatives.,
ID257,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,04,09,inform,Sir George Clerk.–As the cawing of the rooks portends a storm it is worth while to mention that the cunning baronet has come down from London and commenced a canvass in this county within these few days. It is stated we believe upon good authority that he accounts for this course of proceeding by referring to the great probability of the Lords throwing out the Irish Municipal Bill.Burn's Monument.–We understand that there is now an early prospect of the completion of this monument which has too long remained in an unfinished state to the surprise of strangers and the discredit to our Modern Athens. The sum already in the Treasurer's hands aided by the profits of the handsome musical work lately issued by Mr M'Leod which he has generously devoted to that purpose is now nearly sufficient to meet the calculations of the expense requird for the railing in and decoration of the ground around the monument. We expect therefore that the work will forthwith be commenced and if a few pounds are still wanted we have no doubt there are hundreds in Edinburgh who would willingly guarantee the Treasurer against any loss by the immediate completion of the undertaking.Annuity Tax.–We understand that deputations from several places in the country are expected to attend the public meeting which is to be held on Tuesday evening for the purpose of petitioning Parliament for the abolition of the Annuity Tax in order to testify their abhorrence of that system of politico Christianity which requires distraint and imprisonment for its support. We observe that Mr Gillon of Wallhouse M.P. is to take the chair. The meeting we doubt not will be most numerously attended.Law of Scotland.–The prizes given by Professor Bell for the greatest proficiency in the examinations were yesterday awarded to Mr William Neish 25 India Street in the senior and to William Spence 31 Broughton Place in the junior class. The following gentlemen also distinguished themselves in the competition : Mr John Fraser James Gilchrist James Mason James Scott in the senior class; James Oliver David Gale John R. Banks James Charles Murray Wm. M'Naughton in the junior.Kilwinning March 30.–The United Associate Presbytery of Kilmarnock met at Kilwinning on Tuesday the 22d March and ordained Mr A. Macgregor to the pastoral charge of the congregation in that place. The Rev. D. Henderson of Dalry preached and presided. The Rev. Mr Cairns of Stewarton ordained and the Rev D. Ronald of Saltcoats gave the charge to the minister and congregation. On the Sabbath following the Rev. Mr Tait of Barrhead introduced Mr Macgregor to his congregation ; and there is every prospect that the hitherto long disappointed congregation of Kilwinning will now prosper under the pastoral care of their much esteemed and highly talented young minister.Presentation of Plate.–Mr A. S. Walker late of the Commercial Bank of Scotland at present manager of the branch of the Commercial Bank of England at Uttoxeter in Staffordshire was lately presented with an elegant tea service by the proprietors of that establishment bearing the following inscription :– Presented to Mr Archibald S. Walker by the Uttoxeter Proprietors of the Commercial Bank of England as a small acknowledgement of his faithful and valuable services–March 1836. This is another proof of the estimation in which many of the young men are held who have been trained to the banking system in this country. From a Return just published we find that the emigration to Canada has been comparatively small last year. The whole number of emigrants landed at Quebec and Montreal in 1835 was 12527 : in 1831 and 1832 four times and in 1834 two times as many were sent out. Of the 12527 there were 5597 adult males 3866 females and 3064 children under 14 years. Of the whole number 1043 were sent out by parochial aid. The numbers from the three kingdoms were– England 3067 Ireland 7108 Scotland 2127 From Newfoundland Nova Scotia &c. 225 Settled in Lower Canada 2297 Upper Canada 9800 Died at Grosse Isle and Quebec 13 Returned to the United Kingdom 117 Removed to the United States 300 –12527But besides those who went to Canada 16749 landed at New York raising the whole number of emigrants to 29376. There were no less than three vessels wrecked last year on their way to Quebec– the William Ewing from Londonderry with 300 passengers all saved–the barque James from Newfoundland all saved–and the Nathaniel Graham from Cork with 48 persons on board passengers and crew of whom 41 were lost.From another part of the Report we find that 2764 female emigrants were sent out to Australia last year under the superintendence of the Emigration Committee. Of these 2105 had a free passage. The arrangements seem to have been ood ; for the mortality was small and few complaints were made. The females were all of decent character and due care was taken on their arrival to get them disposed of as servants in situations where their morals would not be exposed to unnecessary risk.Ulster Railway.–Length 36 miles from Belfast to Armagh ; capital t600000 in 12000 shares of which t393000 are subscribed. The number of passengers expected is 450000; the expected income is t93000 of which t67800 is from passengers ; the estimated expense of the work is t539000. The steepest gradient is 1 in 200. There are 3 tunnels of 310 320 and 570 yards in length.East Lothian Railway.–We call attention with great pleasure to the Prospectus of a railway from Dunbar to Edinburgh by Haddington and Tranent which appears in our first page. No one can have travelled over the ground without observing how admirably it is fitted for this species of communication by its remarkable uniformity of surface. We should have doubted whether such a work would pay had it terminated at Edinburgh ; but as a part of an unbroken line reaching across the most fertile and populous parts of Scotland from the German ocean to the Atlantic its chances of success are vastly increased.Dundee and Arbroath Railway.–The Committee's report on this railway has reached us but we must confine ourselves to an abstract. The length is 16 miles 5 furlongs and 90 yards ; the capital t100000 divided into 4000 shares which is all subscribed but authority is taken to raise t40000 more by loan ; sum paid up t5000 ; subscribed by shareholders locally interested t88900 by others t7150 : there are three subscribers for t2000 and upwards : the expected income from passengers is t16912 goods t14654 from both t31566. There are no tunnels no inclined planes and the steepest gradient being only 1 in 1000 scarcely differs from a dead level. It does not cross any highway or turnpike on a level. The estimated expenses is t99844.Statute Labour Acts.–It appears from the votes of the House of Commons that a Select Committee has been appointed to investigate the Scottish Statute Labour Acts and to consider what amendments may be made thereon. It may be stated that by the present act for this county proprietors of land and several other descriptions of people are totally exempted from any burden on account of the coaches chaises gigs or saddle horses they may keep though it is quite plain good roads are of as much advantage to them as to the occupiers of land upon whom almost the sole burden is thrown. In many parishes a considerable addition would be made to the road funds were no such exemptions allowed. At present the management is vested in heritors rated at one hundred pounds Scots and upwards though it is stated with confidence that were the occupiers of land included beneficial consequences would follow.–East- Lothian Correspondent.Leith Mechanics' Friendly Assurance Society.– The fifth annual meeting of this Institution was held on Tuesday last–John Hutton Esq. one of the Honorary Members President of the Society in the chair. A very satisfactory report for the last year was read and thanks were voted to the different Office bearers. It appears that this society was established under the countenance of the Magistrates and Ministers and various influential individuals in Leith and is well deserving of encouragement as affording the benefits of mutual insurance to the working classes the lowest rates consistent with perfect security. The funds we understand are in a prosperous state.Hay and Straw.–In consequence of it having been alleged last Wednesday that higher prices were got for straw than those quoted we have made due inquiry and find there are no grounds for such an allegation. We have been further assured that in reporting the prices of hay and straw for these two years past the clerk of the corn market has never shown a desire to favour the farm servants at the expense of their employers or to favour either party at the expense of the public.The Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty have been pleased to grant by their warrant dated the 6th of April 1836 a distinguishing flag to be worn by the respective vessels belonging to the Eastern Regatta Club of Scotland viz. a blue cornet flag with a white St Andrew's cross on the upper quarter on a red field.Heriot's Hospital.–At the meeting of the Governors of George Heriot's Hospital on Thursday the 7th instant the estimate of Messrs Trotter for alterations and repairs on the chapel amounting to t935 was accepted and it will gratify the friends of economy to learn that this is t65 under the sum voted by a majority of the Governors for that purpose some time ago. Thereafter a unanimous vote of thanks was passed to Councillor Gillespie Graham for gratuitously furnishing a plan of the intended improvements on the chapel which was described by Councillor Grant and others as highly creditable to the skill and good taste of that distinguished architect. The Governors then proceeded to consider the list of applications for admission of boys preparatory to the usual half-yearly election. There were 16 vacancies and 37 applicants who may be thus classed :–Those who have never received benefit from George Heriot's Hospital or any other institution 12 Those who have received benefit for one child 13 Do. for two children 6 Do. for three children 5 Do. for five children 1 37In considering cases the present practise of the Governors is to give preference first to children of widows (being poor) then to those who have never received benefit afterwards those who have had only one child in and so on. These were but three applications for widow's children and one for an orphan out of the above number and it is therefore probable considering the large population of Edinburgh that it is not sufficiently known that George Heriot in his will expressly points out the fatherless and poor being children of burgesses and freemen as the objects of his charity–hence if there be not a sufficient numbers of really necessitous cases the Governors in filling up the vacancies may elect some that do not appear to have strong claims simply from those that have such claims not coming forward in sufficient numbers. Political Economy.–On Thursday last the course of lectures on Political Economy delivered by Dr Thomas Murray in Elder Street Chapel was brought to a conclusion ; on which occasion the thanks of the meeting were on the motion of one of the members of committe voted by acclamation to the lecturer for his valuable services. After thanks had been returned by Dr Murray Mr A. G. Hunter merchant was called to the Chair and some conversation having taken place the committee of management who had necessarily been self-elected were confirmed by the meeting in their office and empowered to take such steps as they might think expedient for obtaining lectures to the industrious classes next winter. We understand that Dr Murray is to be entertained at supper some evening next week on the occasion of being presented with a piece of silver plate.It is with much regret we learn that John Grieve Esq. of Newington Cottage died on Monday last. He was beloved and esteemed for his estimable qualities by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance and his death will be long and deeply regretted.Rare Sights in London.–A young Scottish Miss who had voyaged the length of London on a pleasure jaunt returned the other day by one of the steamers and was met on landing by various members of her family who anxiously inquired what she had seen in London. Seen ! exclaimed the fair tourist I have seen such sights ! I saw the Theological Garden and all the wild beasts in't!The Theatre.–Mr C. Kean concluded his engagement on Thursday evening–an engagement the longest and most brilliant of any that our Theatre has witnessed for many years. Mr Kean has been with us for a whole month and has succeeded in crowding the house almost every night. We understand that upwards of 30000 persons have visited the theatre during his engagement–a number beyond that of any former period of equal duration. In that time he has appeared in some of the most arduous and difficult of Shakespeare's characters Hamlet Richard Macbeth Othello Shylock and King John investing each with its own peculiar charms and interest and exciting the highest admiration and astonishment at the versatility and power of his genius which could give such individuality and truth to so many dissimilar distinct and separate classes of characters. The play with which his engagement concluded was Richard which character he has performed seven times during his engagement ; the house was as usual crowded in every part and he exerted himself most strenuously and successfully. At the conclusion the cheers of the audience were loud and long and two laurel wreaths were thrown upon the stage from different parts of the house. Mr K. being loudly called for appeared in front of the stage and delivered the following very neat and appropriate address:–Ladies and Gentlemen–I now stand before you for the last time this season but believe me whichever way my pilgrimage may bend my thoughts will ever recur to Edinburgh as those of a child to its distant home fondly anticipating the hour when he shall again stand upon its threshold. (Great cheering.) Till that period permit me with a heavy but a grateful heart to pronounce that melancholy word– farewell. (Mr Kean then withdrew amidst reiterated and enthusiastic plaudits from all parts of the house.) –Mr K. we perceive appears next in Aberdeen where the people are anticipating a rich treat from his performances. The boxes there we are told are already taken for several successive nights to come.– Mrs Honey from the Theatre Royal Haymarket makes her appearance here on Monday first.On Wednesday evening Mr John G. Moxey baker Castle Street was entertained at supper in Menzie's Hotel and Tavern Waterloo Place by a party of friends of about fifty in number previous to his leaving this country for America to which he is about to emigrate. The company was very harmonious and the compliment must have been very gratifying to Mr Moxey.Qualifications of General Assembly Elders.–The Presbytery of Cupar at their meeting on the 29th ult. elected the Earl of Leven and Melville and Walter Malcolm Esq. Edinburgh to represent them in the ensuing Assembly. Mr Malcolm is factor for Captain Hay of Mugdrum who is principal heritor in the parish of Newburgh and was lately ordained an elder there. Against his election to serve in the Assembly a protest and appeal were taken on the grounds as we understand that he has no domicile within the bounds of Presbytery and is not an officiating elder; the protesters allowing that his election though consistent with the letter is contrary to the spirit of an act of Assembly passed in 1816. If the appeal is sustained it is evident that a large proportion of the Assembly elders must vacate their seats. Intimation also was given by D. Maitland M'Gill Esq. that when the commissions came to be attested he would move for evidence being produced that the elders-elect maintain family worship. An amusing inquiry was instituted in the Presbytery last year respecting the Earl of Leven's habits of domestic devotion ; and a clerical member had the candour to say he should wish to know how it was with the ministers themselves in that respect.The University of St Andrews has just conferred the degree of Doctor of Divinity on the Rev. Professor Paxton of Edinburgh. In bestowing this public honour on one who during a long and useful life has done so much for the cause of literature and religion the members of the College have done an act which shows that they can appreciate real merit and which will entitle them to the gratitude of the religious public of Scotland. Those who have had the good fortune to enjoy the public ministrations of Professor Paxton and even the general church-going community are well aware of the rich and glowing eloquence of the pious and heartfelt warmth and of the classical elegance which have long characterised his public preaching. Even beyond the religious body of which he is the ornament he is well known as one of the most popular and impressive teachers of the day. In his lectures on Theology as Professor to the General Associate Synod and afterwards to the Associate Synod he displayed the results of an extensive and profound critical study of the Scriptures and of an unwearied research into the Natural History and the manners and usages of the ancients nations. The work by which he is chiefly known as an author– The Illustrations of Scripture–will long bear testimony to the extent of his learning and of his Oriental investigations and to his powers of lucid and eloquent composition. We understand that the attention of the College was directed to Mr Paxton's merits by the distinguished Professor of Oriental Languages. This anxiety to do justice to a fellow labourer in the same field of study reflects high honour on the discrimination and the heart of Mr Tennant.Public Dinner to Professor Dick.–On Tuesday last the Students ofthe Edinburgh Veterinary College and a number of Veterinary Surgeons and other gentlemen (in all upwards of 70) from various parts of Scotland entertained Professor Dick to a public dinner in the Waterloo Hotel. John Lambert Esq. in the Chair and Alexander Gordon jun Esq. croupier. The stewards were Ed. Pyper Esq. of West Craigs J. R. Laing Esq. jun of Dunkenny Samuel Wordsworth jun. Esq. W.S. Dr Malcolm James Miller Esq. and George Rennie Esq.– Amongst the gentlemen present we observed Professors Low and Lizars ; Drs Robertson Spittal Knox and Aitken Mr Ferguson surgeon ; J. B. Murdoch Esq. of Coldoch; Charles Gordon Esq. Secretary to the Highland Society of Scotland ; A. T. Blackwood Esq. of Oggs Castle ; Mr Dick senior &c. The cloth having been removed and the usual loyal toasts drank the chairman in a neat and appropriate speech proposed the health of Professor Dick to whom the present meeting had assembled to do honour and who at once commanded their esteem as a member of society and their admiration as a man of talent which toast was drank with the greatest enthusiasm. The chairman then proposed his Grace the Duke of Gordon and the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland Patrons of the Edinburgh Veterinary College which was followed by a variety of other appropriate toasts. Many excellent songs were sung and the conviviality of the evening was kept up until a late hour.Royal Infirmary–We understand that the Stewards of the late Fancy Ball for the benefit of the Royal Infirmary have by their judicious arrangements in the management of the ball been enabled to pay over to the trustees of that institution (after deducting all expenses) the sum of t432 7s. 8d. The managers of the Infirmary as well as the public at large are certainly much indebted to the gentlemen who acted as stewards upon that occasion for their valuable extertions particularly at the present time in support of this great and useful institution for the relief of those labouring under the united calamities of indigence and disease.,
ID258,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,05,18,inform,Papers from Madras to the 17th of January have been received. Accounts had arrived through Singapore from the ship Mangles stating that when passing through Torres Straits she touched at Murray's Island where they discovered eight Europeans part of the crew of the long-missing bark Charles Eaton in a state of slavery but the natives would not deliver up the men. The Charles Eaton was supposed to have been lost on the Barrier Reef in Torres Straits in 1833 in prosecution of her voyage from New South Wales to Madras but no precise intelligence of her fate was previously known. The ironworks which had been erected at Porto Novo were proceeding with activity and some railing had been made there quite equal it is stated to anything og the kind manufactured in England.,
ID259,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,07,16,inform,Every thing is jobbed Female Emigration to Australia &c. (From a Correspondent.)Our penal settlements appear to be very indifferently managed; and we are glad to find that such a man as Sir John Franklin is appointed to govern Van Diemen's Land; and the sooner an improved system is adopted for New South Wales the better. Not only are men sent out to govern who are ignorant of human nature a knowledge of which is essential to the management of the heterogenous materials of our penal colonies; but when the Government at home opens its eyes to any proposal for improvementit is mismanaged. Our rulers have the sense to see the importance of sending our respectable females to these colonies ; but they trust an Emigration Committee and this committee trusts individuals who desire to make the most of the concern ; and we are glad to have an opportunity of making the public acquainted with the mode in which the business is conducted in the hope that some humane Member of Parliament will take the subject up. The mode of managing female emigration is this :–A temptation in the first place is held out of a free passage to Australia. A ship is hired and this ship must ave a full cargo to satisfy the owners. Advertisements are issued and instead of hard working females a parcel of decayed governesses dress makers &c. &c. with a small mixture of better articles is made up. But if as almost always happens a sufficient number of these to fill the ship does not come forward a supply of sweepings is taken from a workhouse! Here then is such a mixture of good bad and indifferent to the amount of two hundred and upwards that there is enough of evil to corrupt the good. As to the comfort of the poor creatures they are crammed four into one bed !Such is the power of jobbing that we happen to know the fact that some young women of respectability who wished to go to New South Wales with their friends were refused a free passage unless they went to London to go in the Government ship ! Thus we see that the interests of agents and shipowners overcomes the interests of the colonies and actually obstructs the attainment of the object in view. We find blindness a very common ailment in every department of Government ; and however desirous our rulrs may be to reform every abuse and to adopt useful measures they are often thwarted by the necessity (which ought not to exist) of conciliating harpies and leeches which devour the public substance and suck the public blood. Reform has as yet only begun to clean the outside of the platter ; and it may not reach the inside in our day. It is the duty however of all patriots to sharpen the knife that is to cut out corruption from the heart of the commonwealth by means of exposure of every abuse that comes to be known and to support those who are willing to apply it.As in a matter of so much importance nothing should be concealed there is no hesitation in stating that it consists with our knowledge that after the Emigration Committee in Van Diemen's Land detailing the deplorable consequences of sending out young women from workhouses a ship has actually sailed nearly filled up as we have described. When any representation is made to a public office the matter is said to belong to another department ; and that other department says it is not its province to interfere ; and thus humanity is made the shuttlecock to the battledore of jobbing and the blindness of office.If our brethren of the press will take up this the inhuman job will be put an end to.,
ID260,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,07,16,inform,Emigration Mr Walter moved pursuant to notice that an humble address be presented to his Majesty praying that he will be graciously pleased to issue his royal orders that a placard entitled Emigration to Van Diemen's Land which the several postmasters throughout the kingdom have been directed to put in a conspicuous place in their several post-offices and to circulate among the clergy and the parochial authorities be withdrawn. He had been assured y several gentlemen who had returned from Van Diemen's land that many of the young females sent out by the Emigration committee had been irrevocable consigned to prostitution and that such as obtained services found themselves placed among a very different calss of persons to that which they had been accustomed to mix with in this country. The hon. member read an extract from a Hobart Town paper of the 19th of February last in which it was stated that some of the females thus launched into the world were not more than twelve of thirteen years old.Mr Wakley seconded the motion. Sir G. Grey adverted to the extraordinary object of the address when the information desired had in fact already been given on a former day. He hoped whatever information correct or erroneous might be circulated on the subject of emigration that the people of England would not adopt their notions from anonymous paragraphs in Hobart Town newspapers. According to the hon. member there was a system in operation by which people were driven out of the country–actually turned out of it as if they were so many slaves. Now he could declare that there could be no more unfounded statement than this. Though much good had arisen to the colonies and individuals yet it could not be denied that in some instances youn women had turned out badly They had these facts upon authority–that many of those females obtained respectable places. The names of the individuals who obtained them the dates of their arrival the mode of their meployment were all to be found int he papers on the table of the house. In conclusion he begged of the hon. member and others when statements relative to emigration were made to receive them with caution and reserve.Mr C. Lushington defended the proceedigs of the Emi gration Committee. he mainted that by their labours the greatest posible good had been accomplished hear hear.) He would then ask of any one to look at the names of the gentlemen who were on that committee–to look at their characters; and could any one who did so believe that the members of that committee would be guilty of the sin of sendng out day after day young females to the colonies–of thus duping those unprotected creatures to their destruction? (hear hear.)Mr Walter replied. He had not relied for his state ments upon newspapers but upon official documents.The motion was negatived without a division.,
ID261,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,07,06,inform,State of Trade.The Wool Trade London Thursday Evening.–The following are more accurate averages of the sales of Colonial Wools which have recently taken place than we were enabled to obtain during their progress.The Colonial Wools offered consisted of 2041 bays. The Wools have become much improved in growth in length of staple in management and in washing. The market being very bare in combining wool this description realized a proportionate advance. Several flocks attracted great attention particularly those market T A in a square I X and Y which show that great pains have been paid by the growers upon them. The correct averages obtained are as follows :–Van Diemen's Land.s. d. s. d. Choice flocks T A in a square 2 9 to 3 1 per lb. Do. I X 2 0 1/2 2 9 Do. Y 1 8 2 9 Good flocks 2 2 3/4 2 9 1/2 Ordinary and fair quality 1 4 1/2 2 2 1/2 Inferior and in the great 1 2 1 4AustralianGood flocks 2 6 2 9 Fair 2 3 1/2 2 5 Inferior 1 11 2 2 and in the grease 1 3The frist class of Van Diemen's Land Wool realised a considerable rise upon last year's sales the produce of the same flocks then selling only at 2s 2d to 2s 5d per lb.The Wool Trade is very brisk. The arrivals this week have been 2300 bales of which about 340 are German 1000 Spanish 300 New South Wales 20 Cape of Good Hope 50 Turkey and 500 bales of South American Woo's.Huddersfield Tuesday.–There has been no visible change in the state of this market for the last three or four weeks. Business in general is pretty good.Bradford June 30.–The activity we have so often had to report in the piece market continues unabated and in six quarters especially low and middle sorts trade to-day is particularly brisk. Whatever alteration there may be in the yarn market as compared with recent reports is for the better. Stocks continue low in the staplers' hands with very little disposition to increase them. Prices remain very steady although the demand for wool is extremely limited. Farmers are rather firmer. The Liverpool sales of New South Wales Wool went off 1d to 2d per lb. above the recent London sales.Rochdale June 27.–The market this week was very well attended but not so brisk as the last.–Low goods were much in demand and sold well. The trade in Rochdale is generally good at present and building is going on to a very considerale extent.York Wool Market June 30.–The quantity of wool brought to this day's market was not so large as that supplied last week nor was the attendance of buyers so numerous yet a considerable portion of business was done and last week's quotations were fully supported :–good bred hog 18 1/2d ; half hog and ewe 16 1/2d to 17d ; all ewe 15d to 15 1/2d ; locks without cots 10 1/2 to 11 1/2d ; ditto with cots 11d to 12 1/2d per lb.,
ID262,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,08,10,inform,Emigration.–The Emigration committee recently came to a resolution that adverting to the information imparted to the committee both collectively and individually of the excessive immorality stated to prevail in certain districts of New South Wales they have formed the opinion that they cannot conscientiously recommend to the Government to ecourage the furher emigration of single females however well selected uprotected by parents or near relatives to Sydney.,
ID263,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,08,10,inform,Emigration.–The Emigration Committee recently came to a resolution that adverting to the information imparted to the committee both collectively and individually of the excessive immorality stated to prevail in certain disticts of New South Wales they have formed the opinion that they cannot conscientiously recommend to the Government to encourage the further emigration of single females however well selected unprotected by parents or near realtives to Sydney.,
ID264,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,10,26,inform,Emigration to South Australia–On Tuesday last sailed from Gravesend for Adelaide in the new colony the John Renwick a fine ship of 500 tons burden. This vessel contains 131 emigrants of the following descriptions: 37 young married couples having 32 young children ; 9 young bachelors and 7 young spinsters some of whom are expected to marry on the passage ; 2 carpenters of maturer age engaged to superintend the erection of forty wooden houses which constitute the principal cargo of the ship.,
ID265,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1836,12,07,persuade,South AustraliaWe have received the first annual Report of new colony of South Australia a Parliamentary paper presented in June last. The site selected for the colony is a part of the south coast of New Holland extending two or three hundred miles on each side of Spencer's Gulf and about 600 miles into the interior. It was anticipated that the best central station would be Port Lincoln at the entrance of Spencer's Gulf on the west side or Nepean Bay on the north coast of Kangaroo Isle. Port Lincoln is in latitude 35 and east longitude 136 about 700 miles right west from Sydney the same distance north-west from Van Diemen's Land and about 1000 miles eastward of the colony at King George's Sound. Nepean Bay is about 100 miles east from Port Lincoln. The colony is established under Parliamentary Commissioners as an experiment we believe to try whether it may not be possible to execute an extensive plan of emigration without any charge to the country by selling lots of land at such a price as would defray the expense of conveying the emigrants from England. The plan adopted is to send out preferably young married persons under thirty and to admit no slaves or convicts into the colony. A company has embarked t35000 in the enterprise. A surveying vessel was sent out in March to examine the coast carefully that the best site might be chosen at first and the necessity of removal avoided. Six vessels altogether had sailed down to the 1st May carrying out 152 male labourers with 37 females and 26 male and 10 females of a superior class. These numbers include 26 children. The Commissioners attempted at first to get 20s. per acre for the land ; but finding it impossible they reduced the price to 12s. By selling at this price 437 lots consisting each of a country section of 134 acres and a town section of one acre they had raised the t35000 required by the act of Parliament as the condition of the grant of land. We give these few details to put our readers in a condition to understand the notices which appear from time to time in the papers respecting the colony. We hope the Commissioners or the adventurers will give the country a distinctive name. The title of South Australia is bad any way and even positively absurd ; since Australia (quasi Australasia) originally intended for New Holland has already begun to be monopolised by Van Diemen's Land. The district at Spencer's Gulf if it is to participated in the general denomination should be termed North rather than South Australia. By the way most of our colonies in that quarter of the world have ridiculous names as is instantly perceived when we coin a nationa term for the people out of them. What can be worse than a Van Diemen-lander ; a New South-Wales-ian ; a Swan River-ite ; or a King-George's Soundian ! !,
ID266,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1837,05,10,inform,New Holland.–The Government intend to move in the House of Commons the grant of t1000 to defray a portion of the charge of an expedition to be despatched for the purpose of exploring the north-west part of New Holland agreeably to recommendations of the Royal Geographical Society to ascertain the existence or the contrary of any great river in the north-west portion of New Holland.,
ID267,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1837,06,07,inform,Religion in Australia.–An Act of Council has passed to the effect that whenever t300 are raised for the erection of a church and parsonage the Government may advance the same sum–and that if one hundred adults sign a declaration of their wish for a clergyman a salary of t100 may be given–if two hundred a salary of t150 and if five hundred a salary of t200. Already nine clergyman are wanted.,
ID268,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1837,07,01,inform,The Mid-Lothian which lately came home from China is at present being fitted up to convey settlers from the Isle of Skye to Australia. She has been chartered by Government; and will acommodate upwards of three hundred emigrants.,
ID269,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1837,07,09,inform,Highland Emigrants.–The ship Midlothian has just been fitted up at Leith for the reception of Highland emigrants which she is to take in at the Isle of Skye for Sydney New South Wales. These emigrants are we believw to be carried out at a very small cost to themselves the largest portion of the passage money being paid by Government out of the land revenue of New South Wales which is exclusively appropriated towards the encouragement and promotion of emigration–the objects in view being as well the relief of those districts in this country which are suffering from the want of employment and subsistence as by the introduction into that colony of a body of well disposed and virtuous free emigrant families and individuals the promotion of the moral welfare of the colonists generally. The emigrants will we believe receive employment in New South Wales as farm-servants shepherds overseers &c. We had a brief inspection of the Midlothian on Monday afternoon and found it to be a very fine vessel fitted up in a manner the most comfortable and convenient that could well be effected. She sails this afternoon from Leith to the Isle of Skye.,
ID270,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1837,11,22,inform,Thus the British Government is multiplying its colonies round the shores of New Holland. Exclusive of Van Diemen's Land which forms a separate island we have first on the eastern shore the old settlement of Port Jackson ; a second recently formed at Port Philip 500 miles south from Sidney ; a third just described at St. Vincent's Gulf 500 miles west from Port Philip ; a fourth at King George's Sound 1100 miles west from St Vincent's Gulf ; a fifth at Swan River 250 miles north from King George's South. All these colonies are in the temperate zone between the latitudes of 30 and 38 and will have nearly the same climate. We had one at Melville Island on the north coast within the torried zone in latitude 12 ; but it was found to be very unhealthy and was abandoned after a short trial ten years ago.Though the interior of New Holland so far as hitherto explored is one of the most barren and unpromising lands in the world there is a margin of good soil round the greater part of its coasts capabale [?] of supporting twenty or thirty or fifty mil lions of inhabitants; and there is little doubt that in the course of three centuries it will be the seat of a great and powerful nation cultivating the arts and speaking the language of Britain and contributing powerfully to spread civilisation over the Southern Hemisphere.,
ID271,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1838,06,09,inform,EmigrationThe Annual Report on Emigration just issued contains besides the usual correspondences and documents connected with the plan which has been some time in operation of transferring labourers from India to the Mauritius and which it is now proposed to extend to New South Wales. Leaving this subjest for the present we shall state the general results[?] of the emigration to Canada.The Report shows that the whole number of emigrants who landed at Quebec or Montreal in the last nine years was 259788[?] averaging very nearly 29000 per annum. The years of greatest emigration were 1831 and 1832 the numbers for these years being respectively 50254 and 51746. The proportions[?] [?] furnished by the three kingdoms in the nine years were as follows :–Among eight emigrants there were five Irishmen two Englishmen and one Scotsman. Scotland in proportion to its population has sent off three times as many emigrants and Ireland about nine times as may as England; and it should be added that a certain part of the emigration from England is artificial consisting of paupers sent out at the expense of their parishes. Emigrations offers the most natural practicable and safe means of relieving a country of its redundant or unemployed population ; and it may be asked why it is so much less resorted to in England than in Scotland and Ireland? It cannot[?] be the ignorance of the English for this would lead to the inference that the Irish who emigrate in the largest numbers were the best informed of the three nations. It is we apprehend nothing but the Poor Laws which hold out to the labourer the certainty of a subsistence at home however idle or improvident he may be and render him averse to live in the colonies where he would have no such resource. This is only one of the many evils which these laws have pro duced not only to the country at large but to the labouring classes themselves whose average condition was greatly deteriorated while only a fraction of their number shared the benefit of the allowance. We speak of the Poor Laws as they existed before the Act of 1834 was passed.The number of emigrants who went to Canada last year was 21901 of whom 1399 went from Scotland 5580 from England 14538 from Ireland and 274 from Nova Scotia Newfoundland or the West Indies. In 1836 the number of emigrants was 27728. The ports in Scotland from which the greatest numbers sail are Greenock Leith Aberdeen and Cromarty. Of the emigrants in 1837 4000 settled in Lower Canada 16300 in Upper Canada 1500 went to the United States and ninety-two died in the hospital or quarantine station.In the same period of nine years 236288[?] British emigrants have landed at new York or fully 26000 per annum on average. There is a great fluctua-[?] tion in the number. In 1833 and 1835 it was only 16000 ; in 1837 it was 34000 ; in 1836 no less than 59075 ; and addingthe 27728 who went to Canada no less than 86800 persons must have landed at New York and Quebec from the British Isles in [?]. There is a discrepancy however between this account and another in a different Return also newly published. The Report of the Agent-General for Emigration makes the number who went to the United States from Britain in 1836 only 37774. The former probably comprehends all British born subjects including persons from Nova Scotia Canada and the West Indies and probably all passengers many of whom returned.The Agent-General gives the number of persons who emigrated to the British Colonies and the United States for every year since 1825. We present merely the average for the last year seven years.Annual number of Emigrants from Britain to North American Colonies 39[?]00 Ditto do. to United States 34[?]00 Ditto do. to Cape of Good Hope 20[?] Ditto do. to Australian Colonies 3[?]0 73[?][?]In 1832 the number who emigrated to these Colonies was no less than 103140. The number who went out to Australia in 1837 was much greater than in any preceding year being 5054.If we assume that each emigrant pays for his passage &c. or has in his pocket t30 the average net[?] expended on emigration will be about two millions per annum. It may be correctly stated now that human beings form no inconsiderable item in number and value of our exports. In the case of Ireland we suppose it is by far the most flourishing and by no means the least advantageous branch of the national commerce.The annual increment of the population of British Isles is about 330000 independently of the efflux by emigration ; but including this it must be about 420000. It follows that there are about [?] more inhabitants in the country each day than there were on the day before. Of the 1150 additional mortals[?] emigration carries off 200.The establishment of steam navigation across the Atlantic will no doubt give a new impulse to the circulation of human beings while the construction of railroads across the Alleganies and of canals in Canada will greatly increase the capacity of the western world to absorb the imported multitudes. In seven years hence the journey from London to Missouri will be shorter in point of time and perhaps cheaper than the journey from Washington to Missouri was seven years ago. A religious man might see something like the finger of Providence in the fact that just at the time France Germany the Netherlands and Switzerland begin to feel severely the pressure of a redundant population inventions have started into existence which may be said to annihilate space and bring the most thinly inhabited parts of the world into juxtaposition with the most overpeopled.From the American Almanac we find that the number of passengers who arrived in the United States in 1836 was 81000 of whom 4000 were native Americans. The proportion of emigrants from the different foreign countries was–From the British Isles 47792 ... British American Colonies 2681 ... Germany 20142 ... France 4443 ... Prussia 563 ... Switzerland 465 ... Denmark 414 ... Holland 298 ... Mexico 797 ... Texas 698 ... Cuba 516 ... Other countries 2152Some curious inferences might be drawn from this table as to the motives which induce men to leave their native country. Celeris paribus there is most emigration where there is most intelligence. Thus Spain Portugal Sardinia Naples the Papal States and Austria furnish no emigrants to American while Britain and Germany furnish a vast number. Much however must depend on the domestic condition of the country and on the greater or less facilities for removing. Thus considering its inland position and the small number of its inhabitants the spirit of emigration must be much more active in Switzerland which sends out 445 persons than in France which sends out 4443.The magistrates of New York it appears consider the influx of emigrants a nuisance and it would seem from an expression of Mr Buchanan's the agent at Quebec that they had laid a tax of ten dollars upon all who arrive with an intention of settling. The key to this proceeding is no doubt to be found in the following facts. A Board of Aldermen reported in June last that the expense of City Almshouses in the preceding year were 205500 dollars or t44000 ; that of 1209 persons admitted in a certain period 932 were aliens ; and that the whole number under the charge of the Commissioners was 3074 of whom three-fourths were foreigners. A communication from the Mayor at the same time says:– Nearly 2000 emigrants arrive each week ; our streets are filled with the wandering crowds of those passengers clustering in our city unaccustomed to our climate without money without employment without friends many not speaking our language without any dependence for food or rainment[?] or fireside. In Boston and Philadelphia also nearly one-half of the inmates of the almshouses were foreigners.,
ID272,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1838,09,22,inform,Emigration to Australia.–Several vessels have sailed within the last three weeks for our settlements in the souther hemisphere with full cargoes of goods and a large number of passengers. The South Australian packet-ship Orleana will carry out nearly 250 passengers. Many of the emigrants are capitalists and some to a considerable amount.General Flinter.–We are sorry to learn by our letters from Madrid that a very brave and deserving officer General Flinter committed suicide on the 9th instant in that city. General Flinter was an Irishman of good family. He served under the Duke of Wellington in Portugal and Spain and was one of the many officers who joined the Portuguese and Spanish armies by permission of our Government.–Morning Post.,
ID273,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1838,09,22,inform,The King of Prussia and his Catholic Sub- jects.–The German Courier in an article date Berlin 5th instant refers to the late arrests in Posen and accuses the Catholic clergy of stimulating their flocks to revolt. The Prussian Government had in consequence increased its exertions to conciliate the Court of Rome in hopes that its influence would be exercised over the clergy and induce them to return to their allegiance. On the other hand the sect of Separatists who had resolved to emigrate from Austria to Australia because of the interference of Government with their religious belief amounted to 40000 souls. It was said they would be joined by a great number of the inhabitants of Pomerania.,
ID274,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1838,11,24,inform,Commission of the General AssemblyOn Wednesday the Commission of Assembly met in the Tolbooth Church–Dr Muir Moderator in the chair.The Presbyterian Church in New South Wales. –The Moderator recalled to the notice of the Commission that on a former meeting they had directed him to write to Lord Glenelg Secretary for the Colonies disavowing connection with Dr Lang in New South Wales and blaming his proceedings in that colony in separating himself from the Presbytery there formed in connection with the Church of Scotland. Since that time he had had a communication from Lord Glenelg which he was sure would be received by the Commission with great satisfaction.The communication from Lord Glenelg was then read. It consisted of a copy of the despatch transmitted to the Governor of New South Wales approving of his conduct in withholding the salaries of the Presbyterian laymen who had not submitted themselves to the authority of the Presbytery in connection with the Church of Scotland and further directing that Dr Lang's salary should be discontinued. His lordship explained that in doing this the Government had no wish to constitute themselves judges in any ecclesiastical disputes ; but as the salaries awarded to these gentlemen had been given on the faith that they were to remain in connection with the Church of Scotland they could not be continued so long as they defied her authority.On the motion of Mr Dunlop the Commission unanimously expressed their satisfaction with the promptitude and decision which the Government had shown in the matter ; and directed the Moderator to communicate their minute to Lord Glenelg. It was also agreed to re-appoint the Committee to watch over the farther proceedings especially as it was understoof that Dr Lang was now on his way to this country.Case of Small Isles.–The Commission then proceeded to take up the case of Small Isles which it will be recollected arose out of the Rev. Mr M'Lean having as was alleged appeared in the lobby of the Assembly House while that Court was sitting in May last in a state of intoxication. The case occupied the Court a considerable part of the day; and at the evening sederunt the following motion by Dr Gardner was unanimously agreed to–That the Commission having considered the evidence on the record find that in as far as that evidence is hearsay it is inadmissable; but find it proved that on the afternoon of Friday the 25th of May last Mr M'Lean was seen in a state of intoxication in the vestibule of the General Assembly attempting to force his way into it; that it is proved he was on two other occasions during the sitting of last Assembly in a state of intoxication; and therefore they find that he ought to be deposed from the office of the holy ministry and direct the Moderator accordingly to pronounce the sentence of deposition directing the Clerk to transmit an extract of the sentence to the Presbytery of Skye and them to declare the parish of Small Isles vacant.–The Moderator pronounced from the chair the sentence os deposition.Case of Lethendy.–In the course of the proceedings during the early sederunt of the Commission the Procurator rose and said he might take the present opportunity of stating to the Commission that within the last three or four days a petition and complaint had been given in to the Court of Session and appointed to be served at the instance of Mr Clark presentee to the parish of Lethendy against the Presbytery of Dunkeld and Mr Kessen whom that Presbytery had lately inducted into that charge in despite of interdicts issued by the Court of Session. He mentioned the fact to that Commission presuming that they would authorize him to defend the Presbytery who had acted under authority of the Commission itself.Mr Buchanan of Glasgow after some remarks in commendation of the firmness of the Presbytery in carrying through the settlement amidst many difficulties moved that The Commission sanction the Procurator's defending the Presbytery in the trying circumstances in which they are placed and resolve that they will to the utmost of their power encourage and support them under whatsoever difficulties they may be subjected by their execution of the sentence of the Commission ; and that the thanks of the Commission be given to the Presbytery for the decision and temperate firmness with which they have practically maintained the rightful authority and jurisdiction of the Church.Dr Bryce said he was quite unprepared for any motion on this subject; but with the views which he entertained in regard to this case it was impossible he could concur in the motion proposed and he must therefore dissent from it.Mr James Bridges expressed great indignation against Mr Clark for thus bidding defiance to the authority of the Church Courts and he proposed that for thus trampling on the rights and dignity of the Church Mr Clark should be forthwith called before the Commission for an exemplary punishment.–Mr Dunlop suggested that although he concurred in feeling with Mr Bridges it would be premature at present to take any steps against Mr Clark inasmuch as there was no official communication on the subject from the Presbytery of Dunkeld.Mr Makgill recommended to Mr Bridges for this reason not to press his motion declaring that as at this time 200 years ago eight Bishops had been deposed he trusted the time was not far distant when Mr Clark would receive a similar reward for his misconduct; and Mr M. said emphatically that whatever the Presbytery of Dunkeld might suffer for upholding the independence of the Church he as a member of Commission by whose orders they had acted would be proud to bear his share.Mr bridges then intimated that he would waive pressing his motion and Mr Buchanan's was adopted Dr Bryce and Mr W. Malcolm intimating their dissent on the ground that it was incompetent and inexpedient for the Commission to adopt such a resolution.Commemoration of the Second Centenary of the Celebrated Assembly at Glasgow.–In the course of the day the Moderator suggested that as this was the second centenary of the great Assembly at Glasgow which might be considered as the founder not only of their ecclesiastical but of their civil liverties a meeting should be held exclusively devoted to prayer and thanksgiving to Almighty God for the benefits conferred on their Zion.At seven o'clock accordingly several of the members and a considerable number of people assembled when an hour was spent in devotional exercises which were conducted by Drs Muir Lee and Dickson in succession.The Commission adjourned to the second Tuesday in February next.,
ID275,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,04,10,inform,The Wesleyan Mission Ship.–The Committee of this Society have purchased a vessel to be employed exclusively under their direction in conveying missionaries and stores between the colonies of New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land the Friendly Islands the Fejees and other groups and islands of the Great South Pacific Ocean.,
ID276,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,04,03,inform,Colonel Wyndham has sent out a commission to Canada to purchase an estate of 10000 acres and intends furnishing the same assistance to persons desirous of emigrating from his estates to Australia and Canada as was given by the late Earl of Egremont.–Morning Herald.,
ID277,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,05,11,inform,New Zealand.–A vessel selected to carry out emigrants to New Zealand under the auspices of a company formed in this country will sail in about a fortnight. She is called the Tory and measures about 480 tons. A dejeuner was given on Saturday by the proprietors on board in the West India Docks at which Lord Durham Lord Petre Sir G. Sinclair and several other distinguished persons were present. She is a fine vessel well armed and ample preparations have been made for the voyage. The company have purchased 600000 acres of land from the native chiefs.,
ID278,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,06,05,inform,Daryanthus Excelsa–This most magnificent and gigantic plant is now in full bloom in one of the hothouses at Dunkeld gardens. It is a native of New South Wales and to be met with in this country in very few collections–this being the third plant of the kind that has flowered in Great Britain. It is one of the four plants which were sent from New Holland to the Duchess of Atholl twelve years ago and the only one that has survived the voyage. The seapus or stem is upwards of twelve feet in heigh from the top of which diverge seven stalks each bearing nine large flowers of a deep crimson and pink colour. The formation of the stalks and outer petals of the flower remind one of the Crinum Amabile but much larger. We had no communication as a guide to its culture but kept it at all times and in all season associated with the most hardy green-houseplants.–Dunkeld Gardens 24th May.By the death of Sir James Montgomery the office of Presenter of Signatures in Scotland has become vacant. We understand that this office is no longer to be conducted by deputy.On Thursday the 23d ult. the United Associate Congregation Kendal gave a unanimous call to Mr William Ritchie preacher to be their pastor.,
ID279,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,07,10,inform,The ship St Mungo Captain Robert Smith Orr sailed from Leith Roads on Thursday forenoon last bound to Port Philip and Sydney New South Wales having on board fifty-eight passengers chiefly settlers for the former of these settlements.,
ID280,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,07,24,inform,Collision at Sea.–We are sorry to learn that the fine new ship Palmyra which sailed from Greenock on her first voyage for Sydney New South Wales on Wednesday week having a large number of respectable emigrants on board came in dreadful collision when at sea on Sunday evening with another vessel and had her bulwark driven in and some of the masts dismantled but providentially no lives were lost. She was towed back to Greenock on Wednesday morning and the utmost exertions are making for her re-sailing from Greenock early next week.,
ID281,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,07,25,inform,Emigration to South Australia–On Saturday last about twenty-five persons male and female left this town and neighbourhood under the direction of Mr G. Rae agent for her Majesty's Colonisation Commissioners for South Australia and sailed that afternoon from Leith to London to be there embarked on board the Lloyds and were to sail for their adopted land on Thursday last. Their passage was paid by the Commissioner from Leith to London.–Stirling Observer.,
ID282,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,07,27,inform,Meeting on Emigration in Dublin.–One of the largest and msot influential meetings that we ever remember says the Dublin Monitor of Thursday took place on Wednesday at the Rotunda to form an Association for the Promotion of Emigration to South Australia. In rank and numbers it was not surpassed. There could not be less than two thousand persons in the room. Colonel Torrens dwelt at considerable length on the causes of Irish misery and proved fully at least to our satisfaction that a powerful and efficacious remedy was applicable in the objects of the meeting. The subject seemed to tell powerfully on the meeting ; the speakers were heard with great attention and the applauses they received told that the public feeling was deeply identified with the future colony of New Ireland.,
ID283,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,07,27,inform,Australia.–The splendid ship Superb Captain Shannon 1000 tons burthen left Greenock on Saturday morning last with 160 passengers and a valuable cargo of goods. A very considerable number of the passengers were from East Lothian who all expressed themselves highly gratified with their accommodation. The owners Messrs Andrew Steward & Co. spared no expense which might add to the comfort of the emigrants ; and the kind of attentions of Mr Adamson Colonization Company's agent were much appreciated by them all [?],
ID284,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,07,06,inform,A Man Shot.–On Tuesday evening a deliverate attempt at murder by shooting took palce at Greenock. A young man from Edinburgh an intended emigrant for New South Wales by the Palmyra drew from his pocked a pistol and shot in the head a person who had been appointed by his friends to see him on board and to look to his affairs before the sailing of the vessel. The wounded man was taken to the Infirmary in a very dangerous state and the assailant to the jail. It appears that the young man has for some time past been behaving in a manner which made his friends chary of intrusting him with money in this country and that they had employed the individual referred to to see him on board for Australia before leaving any under his charge. This indignity is supposed to have lain heavy on his mind and led to the commission of the act above recorded.–Ibid.,
ID285,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,08,28,inform,First Scotch Colony for New Zealand– A numerous party of emigrants under this title are now making the necessary arrangements for embarking in the Bengal Merchant to sail from Greenock in September. The committee for the west of Scotland and their agents are now employed in selecting eligible persons as settlers and judging from the number of applications the directors will be called on to send a second vessel from the Clyde. A clergyman of the Scotch Church who accompanies the colony will officiate as chaplain on board. It is intended that the Clude shall be made the principal shipping port of Scotland for New Zealand and that the strictest regulations shall be put in force in order to ensure the comfort safety and convenience of the passengers.–New Zealand Gazette.,
ID286,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,09,11,entertain,Selected PoetryThe Woodland By the Late Robert Nicoll.The woodland wild ! – wilt thou go with me Where the squirrel is perchen on his oaken tree– where the yellow fern doth wave its head– Where the hands of night the dew hath laid– And the winds that wander to and fro Kiss the brown leaflets as they go– Where the morning sun peeps in so mild To the dark green nooks of the woodland wild ? The woodland wild ! –where the dun deer roam And the song-birds build them a happy home– Where the grass is green and the turf so sweet Seems shorn by the tread of fairy feet– Where the daylight comes so richly dim And the cushat's coo seems a hermit's hymn The care-worn heart might be self-beguiled To forget its woes in the woodland wild ! The woodland wild ! –where the hazels grow Where the ladye-broom doth its branches throw– Where the God-built sky is in patches seen Through the roof of leaves. There aye hath been The home of those wild and fairy flowers That gladden all Nature's life and ours As they bloom by the stream–that prattling child That wanders along through the woodland wild ! The woodland wild !–If thy heart be pure If thy faith in the right be firm and sure Go wander the woodlands parth within And the love of Nature woo and win; Drink of the cup of beauty there Where the breath of Omnipotence scents the air; For the Father of beauty in love hath smiled On the sweet green bowers of the woodland wild The woodlan wild !–long long ago I have buried myself its leaves below And dreamed of its beauteous tenants all– 'Tis the linnet's home and fairies' hall! 'Tis the spot where the wondrous monk of old His hermitage reared in the pleasant wold; By its door a crystal springlet boiled For the pilgrim to drink in the woodlan wild! The woodland wild !–what pleasant stories Make sunlight over its olden glories– Of Robin Hood and his bowmen bold The raids they made and the tales they told ! In winter in spring and in summer time The glorious forests are aye in prime ; For glad thoughts forever are round them piled Those grassy glades in the woodland wild! The woodland wild!–make haste.–make haste! Away with me and its gladness taste; We will wander beside each gushing stream Where flowers in the water reflected gleam; We will follow its paths and pluck its flowers And lie on its grass in the evening hours Till the dying sunlight soft and mild Warns us away from the woodland wild ! Tail's MagazineSong of the Emigrants to New Zealand Steer helmsman till you steer our way By stars beyond the line– We go to found a realm–one day– Like England's self to shine. Chorus. Cheer up ! Cheer up! our course we'll keep With dauntless heart and hand And when we've ploughed the stormy deep We'll plough a smiling land. A land whose beauties importune The Briton to its bowers To sow but plenty's seeds and prune Luxuriant fruits and flowers Chorus–Cheer up ! cheer up ! There tracts uncheered[?] by human words Seclusion's wildest holds Shall hear the lowing of our herds The tinkling of our folds Chorus–Cheer up ! cheer up ! Like rubies set in gold shall blush Our vineyards girt with corn And wine and oil and gladness gush From Amalthea's horn. Chorus–Cheer up ! cheer up ! Britannia's pride is in our hearts Her blood is in our veins We'll girdle earth with British arts Like Ariel's magic chains Chorus. Cheer up ! cheer up ! our course we'll keep With dauntless heart and hand And when we've ploughed the stormy deep We'll plough a smiling land. T. Campbell London 16th August 1839.,
ID287,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,09,28,inform,LeithThursday afternoon the splendid ship Indus which has been some time in the docks sailed with a full cargo and about sixty settlers for Port Adelaide and Philip South Australia. The Indus has been fitted up in that style of elegance and comfort for which the agents Messrs Broadfoot and Son are so celebrated. The passengers consist of a number of respectable individuals of various professions the greater bulk of whom are agricultural labourers sent out by Messrs Adamson and Co. agents for her Majesty's Commissioners in South Australia.On Wednesday forenoon a man fell from the deck of the Royal William steam-ship and had his thighbone broken and was otherwise seriously bruised. He was carried to the Dispensary Rooms but upon examining the nature of his injuries the medical attendants recommended his removal to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary.,
ID288,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,11,23,inform,Church in New South Wales.–Dr Gordon as Convener of the committee to whom the dissensions that at present existed among the Presbyterian churches in Australia had been remitted by last Commission stated that the Committee had prepared a report ; but that since it was made up several important documents had come to hand which in justice to Dr Lang ought to be considered. He therefore asked leave to delay the report and to have the matter with these documents recomitted to the committee.–This motion was agreed to on the understanding that the question would be again taken up at the meeting of the Commission on the 11th December.,
ID289,Scotsman,Edinburgh,Scotland,United Kingdom,1839,11,24,entertain,Afflicting Case of Destitution.–Some time ago a vessel was advertised to sail from this port for Australia and to take out Government settlers free of expense. A family in Shetland consisting of the husband wife and six of a young family sold off their effects and came to Leith for the purpose of availing themselves of this opportunity to settle in the above colony. On applying to the agent however they were informed that they did not come under the description of persons wanted. Since therefore they have lived in Leith till their little all has been exhausted and the husband from the combined effects of disappointment and want has been thrown upon a sick-bed and the whole family are literally in a state of starvation. Several private individuals with a benevolence that does them the highest credit have temporarily supplied their wants ; but the hands of private charity is soon crippled and unless something else be immediately done we may have soon to report one or more of their deaths from the actual want of the necessaries of life. The object of the present notice therefore is to draw forth the sympathies of the charitable to relive a family thus suddenly involved in want and misery who from their industrious habits and every way excellent characters left their native home with the good wishes of all their friends. Any donations either in money or clothes will be thankfully received by Mr Andrew Spence of the firm of Messrs Cunninham & Spence No. 62 Tolbooth-wynd Leith.,
